# BNSWG 2021-10-14 1400-1430 UTC

**Attendees:** Gina, Larry, Mark, Thomas

## Summary

We discussed next steps and came up with a list of action items.

## Action items

1. larry will post forum post after call [posted](https://forum.stacks.org/t/creating-a-bns-working-group/12491?u=larry)
2. larry will reach out to aaron about multiple names per address
3. thomas will reach out to ludo about his thoughts
4. gina will ask btc.us team to write up the problems they had with 1 name per address limitation
5. larry ping marvin about written version of BNSv3 ideas
6. larry will ask ken if heâ€™s interested in joining
