# **BNS Working Group public meeting (2023-08-03 22:35 GMT+8) - Transcript**

## **Video**

https://youtu.be/zW6FKRlFsuQ

## **Attendees**

Brad Baker (fluidvoice), CrossCheck by Paradigma, Deloon M, Hank Stoever, Larry Salibra, Mark Hendrickson, Patrick Stanley, Ragnar Lifthrasir

## **Transcript**

_This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created._

Larry Salibra: Is there anything anybody wants to talk about today? I would think sort of it would be nice to if not talk about How we can help Hank or what your takeaways are Hank from the call. Any tangible, we could do to help the project move forward.

Hank Stoever: Let's see. I think there was a really interesting training of discussion where I was saying how a goal of this project is allowing Bns. Name holders to tap into L1 liquidity. And there was some pushback around sort of maybe not the best that's necessarily a bad thing, but that sort of utility is crucial. And so I thought about Only vaguely and not like something I'm implementing this project waste that you could actually sort of manage a name when it's on L1. For example. Are there ways to Update a zone file just kind of things like that. And so I can put a ton of thought to that, but I think that's kind of an interesting in a train of thought, for example, Can you still

Hank Stoever: Log in with your Bns name if you're holding it as a ordinal. like Mark, maybe that's kind of an interesting sort of prompt. For you. I would imagine. It's kind of like Something to do with bitcoin-based signatures and there's some complexity there if it's like a tap root wallet but I don't know.

Larry Salibra: I mean,…

Hank Stoever: It's interesting.

Larry Salibra: that's the value of L1 names, it seems like the liquid he's a short-term thing. and perhaps a way just to it's really a product positioning thing. don't say instead of saying, locking up names to, put them on L1 be like you're putting them in layer one, trading mode or something like that, and then Once if there's the ability to use them, then later on the roadmap is going to enable them to Do more stuff. because I think I mean listening to Ragnar, I really am sympathetic to Ragnar's view because, I mean, it sounds like, You're basically breaking the names to trade them and I don't think Nobody wants to break the names, they want to be useful but it's just like a bunch of technical constraints in time constraints which make it.

Larry Salibra: Easier to do this first. And so maybe there's just a way to I mean, it seems like it's more calms like product positioning problem, Then on…

Hank Stoever: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: because I think that we all want to get the same place where, you could use the names as much as possible.

Hank Stoever: Mm- I mean I think some people do just want to be able to trade it as an ordinal and sort of by definition less priority around using it as their identity.

Larry Salibra: Yeah.

Hank Stoever: But that doesn't mean that it should be a priority or certainly not the only thing that's focused on I think it is a product positioning thing because on day one. It's hard to imagine. it's either we spend way way more time on this project. Going on these other utility-based things or we launch it in a way that

Hank Stoever: Yeah, it just has less kind of identity based solutions. So yeah, maybe we find a way to sort of define what those next steps could be like for example. I run like a Bns API and as part of this project I'm gonna build a resolution endpoint for getting the bitcoin owner of a specific name. So if Hank WTC is on there, I could resolve to the current inscription owners address and that could be supported something like Hero for sending BTC to Bns game. But that acquires adoption of this new API or some way of determining using the current zone file based approach. But then also if it's detected as in an inscription,

Hank Stoever: So yeah, figuring out like what those kind of next steps would be. Yeah.

Larry Salibra: What?

Mark Hendrickson: I'm personally willfully behind on all the details here at Mr, Space. And I got up on the form writings, but I think,…

Hank Stoever: Yeah.

Mark Hendrickson: Bradley speaking, I am

Mark Hendrickson: I'm interested in expanding the ball support so that whether a name or demand is on L2 or L1 that, The wallet could be an agnostic as possible.

00:05:00

Hank Stoever: Okay.

Mark Hendrickson: That's the whole.

Mark Hendrickson: And so, Yeah, it's on L1. There might be other APIs or

Larry Salibra: I'm not.

Hank Stoever: Yeah, even go ahead.

Larry Salibra: Saying another, I mean, you can imagine a bunch of different ways of approaching this one is to have two tracks, right that Dr. Bc's on L2, and then thoughts that's on L1 and then try to add the functionality to the L1 and then meet in the middle at some points. the L2 names can adopt the functionality to L1s and vice versa. I'm saying, that the questions, How do you update his own products? That's where I Answer these questions for on a namespace that is seen as being L1 only at the moment, right? And then once you solve those problems like some people over here could solve those problems and some people over here okay how do we transfer them? And then try to meet in the middle and then the stuff for wallets is just ultimately solved by a bunch of APIs in conventions.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: yeah, one thing I would say is I agree with you Larry in the sense of trying to figure out A cohesive strategy for L2 to L1 and specific dots out since that's where all that names are. There's more about SAS names and there are Bns things as far as I know as of today. And so I think there's actually more potential with us stats. On stacks than they're actually is for Dot Btc on stocks. The reason why I say that is because there's more names. First of all, second is there's already Dot Btc name. Ordinance.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Three or four different versions of fortunately, but I think getting the dots out or no holders onto stacks, to great way to onboard a whole bunch of new people on the stocks. And so I think if you really helpful to, I'm very busy. my team was pretty more focused on trade. I do honesty does happen on stacks and I do want to see them be able to get of course funding perhaps new ordinal, stout's name, anyways. So I think it is important Larry to kind of think of the things.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Then. it becomes easier to decide okay for On ordinals how we want to do that. So I'll try to go here. So that's one thing is. Let's think about both of those. Let's think about that. My second thing would be going to be things, I think the next step probably is for me to be specific about what I think would be more optimal approach which is starting with Hank's current plan which are really where you connect your wallet. You are presented with an SVG or image file and then

Ragnar Lifthrasir: right in your name, Ragnar ibtc, but kind of stuff there, you don't walk or anything. And just take that file and scribe it, because I think some people maybe don't understand, kind of what I'm talking about or understand exactly the process. But I propose which basically hates approach, just stopping short of wrapping the names and so maybe I just write that out I did but I guess it's not clear either I can be on Hank's close or can just maybe make a separate one which is an ideal but good for clarity and then that we have a very clear thing of Option a has these pros and cons that can be as these pros and cons, here's exactly what it is. I'm gonna have a real discussion about that, so it gets more specific.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: So what I think are my steps, it's also think about Dot SATs and what we can do with that how to do it and then step two is going to the Dot Btc names having to clear paths. As next steps.

Hank Stoever: yeah I think I am interested in because we didn't really talk about the dots that's part yesterday. So I am pretty interested to hear, current thingy on that because Ragnar and I did talk about this a couple weeks ago and so I think I have an idea of what he's, thinking about but Yeah, I'm curious.

00:10:00

Hank Stoever: And thoughts and then also I don't know, status like you said, devs are busy which is understandable but Is it a rough plan or is it actually maybe gonna happen? sooner, I don't know. Yeah.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: So yes, so the basic idea is that everyone has their golf, south named really want to be able to give them more at a very little cost, their corresponding dotsouth name on stack. So if I have ragnared out south on Ordinals, I able to get ragnar about sets on stacks, so that is the basic goal is the keyboard. You have those or domains to get this stuff is the exact method of doing this, Hank and I talked about this job, how to do that and there's two basic ways I think, is what it sounds like Another one that you put, which is kind of like a smart contract. I feel the other one would be a burning mechanism where you burn one thing and then you get

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Get the staff's name. So for those two you live out, I think a clear method of doing the first approach which is what contract way. And so I think I have to kind of write out the second approach or if you want to do, but I have throughout the second approach of life, that's more like a burn burning mechanism approach, and then by seeing those two against side by side, talking about the pros and the cons of each.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: we then have clarity as to the next steps and whether you're about getting it done obviously Busy everyone is busy, but it's a top priority for me. And with patient, we should have a little bit of time hopefully coming up to meeting focus on this. But I really would like to work with Other teams to make this happen more. Specialized, the tools, seeing whether there's I think a few teams that could probably want to help with this. So yeah.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Because I think it could bring so many bitcoiners onto stacks and the good thing about stuff stats on facts is that as you know about this, there's a very Cleaners to get that thing. They don't ask they don't own stuff like they don't own any they can't buy one name but maybe there's a way that's to give them the name or make them pay for pay for them bits, a dollar, five dollars, whatever it is, if they can just get it with Bitcoin.

Hank Stoever: Philip, or at least, I think it's still. You have your hand raised to do entertainment.

CrossCheck by Paradigma: Okay hello there. sorry about being in the place that is very noisy but what I've been facing is that this is a huge opportunity for we talking about the general I generally digital id based on blockchain and also this as a way to solve the problems of identity of the world. So the population is 7,000 and million people that require the evil ID. So then what is if we don't move in a united way that we can approach offering this way of solving the problems id using blockchain, and those who leading with this facts of Bns system, that actually doesn't matter what you do. It bitcoin on stacks or Italian whatever.

CrossCheck by Paradigma: Because essentially we are solving an idea ID problem because right now if we just don't move in the face trying to get the mass people, with X or Twitter are going to try to cover that area. So, what I've been thinking of all the

CrossCheck by Paradigma: All the way, how to approach the big market you see the financial sector, the older applications that are coming up with their own weight. So the old ways of doing ideas, that's something that is being covered, but not by blockchain, not even a time, not, none of them, and so we can lead that not even the bitcoin concept. see. So there's a big huge opportunity, you see of trying to provide this way of day. So what are we doing for, in order to cover that is to add the functionality open ID as a way as a beachhead in order to provide people who using the

00:15:00

CrossCheck by Paradigma: These are wallet, you see it or x bears in order to enter to that space of but just for the purpose of the adidas identification or credential verification. So we're coming and we have been working on that that has been always there in the Bns system. So that we hope for next week we have a prototype I know in the people to use it and also the profile.xk.ap already has that inclusionality there that we had to do it all four things in order to. So the people can create their credentials and the names and also way to

CrossCheck by Paradigma: To check all that identities, you see? a Web present for your DVD. Of course we're using the Internet, we're not so pure in that sense but that's a way that we can provide as a solution for the big standardization that is coming up in the world using open ID connect. So that's my proposals and we are working on that because we see that the way that is a concrete weight in order to do the blockchain world and especially tax and bitcoin going to offer something that can be solved. You see of course we are using the protocol did well as a way instead Of just a fixed way of had server of accreditation of identification. There's so

CrossCheck by Paradigma: about who's that side or without BTC, we don't care it just Providing a blockchain solution for the identity. That's a wonderful thing. So we had to let the people do whatever they did, but don't force in the centralized way. That's the only way because the problem is much bigger than our capacities. that's my contribution. Sorry about maybe talking about something else.

Hank Stoever: That's okay. I'm Not super familiar with this open ID stuff. But you said you'll have a demo hopefully next week, so I'm really interested to see it. And if there's anything, you have kind of written up about it, I'd love to read more

Larry Salibra: They're open ID…

CrossCheck by Paradigma: Will let you know.

Larry Salibra: because I got into that before Bitcoin.

Hank Stoever: Do you have thoughts about it Larry?

Larry Salibra: I mean I don't know if there's any new coming up, but he opened ideas underneath of What Apple uses for signing with Apple ID would Google uses for signing with Google.

Hank Stoever:

Larry Salibra: I mean it's 15 years old now. I mean, it's early 2000 sort of Stop. And it's like the identity of separating identity provider, which the server, right? So, in this case apples, Identity and point is the server and then you have a bunch of clients that ask the server is this to a test to this person on. I'm not familiar.

Larry Salibra: using something on a blockchain? what problem that really solves? And in terms of, I would say the standardization has already happened. I mean that's what we saw open ID was the idea was that anybody can run but provider, My webs, whatever for a while. But then what happened was the clients would be responsible. So I have an app, right? Anybody can sign on open ID and Hank's using his own and ragnarizing, his own life and Ragnar can't use it can't log in you email support and says, I can't log in turns out it's when with this open ID provider, So, what happened was they started to

Larry Salibra: To only whitelist providers, So only a few well known ones. That could be used dynan and then eventually, became you can use sign with Google sign on Facebook. So I mean, it's same thing that happened with Jabra X and VP we saw on it's actually really the Federated model. It's like a federated model, So the problem with federated models is you have some instances that are very good and very reliable and professionals and some that are not so people all tend to the ones that are run by the professionals. They have a lot of money that are reliable. And then other people, that build products on them are I can't spend time messing around with, Random person who's running the wrong thing. That's just like I can't provide support for that, So I'm just gonna let people signing with the professional ones and then you just get to one or two providers. So this repeated the Internet over and over and over. I'm not sure how this is different.

00:20:00

Hank Stoever: Interesting.

CrossCheck by Paradigma: Essentially that's a beachhead in terms of using the ideas, in order to provide the password password for the login and password aspect. So then the credential management is done by the

CrossCheck by Paradigma: The self sovereign user. So then with the wallet without authorize and change the password by itself, not by the Federated organization. So the only way and that said that we already have around the world using our stack notes and eventually bitcoin note. and that's available everywhere. So that's the user database, that successful and Divine Multi Company or multilinations that accessibility.

Larry Salibra:

CrossCheck by Paradigma: With that. And then the way that, of course, the credential modification has to be some service that follow the open ad connect the protocol. but then that will check that up with file is the stacks soon? Finally.

CrossCheck by Paradigma: Very essential because there you can store the signature of the secret of the passwords. We see you, you find. And then you just compare if you have the same signature signed by the user that has an stagh address but that's behind the scenes you see the people don't see that so because that sun something that the user is using at the behind but then the essential of that is that the idea when it was established? What the w3.org And so that also includes all the blockchain systems. So then with that you get the idea they got Jason file that says where you will authorize

CrossCheck by Paradigma: my open ID password, and that points to the application, that will check that up in its own file. So that's more or less. What we are working on and still it's not 100% finish. So we got to send an MVP. but hopefully next week, or follow a week, but in order to test that up but that's imagine having

CrossCheck by Paradigma: All our stacks because I hired, the numbers 300, stuck in domain names. It's nothing. We have 7,000 million people that require digital id and so 300,000. And also they tell you, I don't know how many they have they may be less than that because we go if the more powerful bitcoin but then the rest of the world we can provide that instead of the legacy stuff, then of course we have to move the people from the base of this uses of

CrossCheck by Paradigma: Of the digital wallet that we are providing, then we can move them to other kinds of services that we have been always already creating and trying to promote but just the internal market of our tax community is not sufficient. it's too small, you see and the market, I'm in Fintech or this, summit here and I can see that. so those are customers.

CrossCheck by Paradigma: So we're trying to provide this thing in order for their credential verification to put it there is instead of using a Google Facebook because Google Facebook quite easy, they are moving that in this arena. So not only taking the data for the placement but also that taking the retention verification movement. They come to win and also the guys of Twitter please also doing that but they were quietly. So we don't take all the movement in the world blockchain, not only bitcoin but all the work and move them to this system thatization and take that advantage. And that's My crazy idea. That's

00:25:00

Larry Salibra: Thanks I'm one. You post post a demo on the form. I think people would love to try it out. next week, when you have,

Hank Stoever: I can only stay for a couple more minutes, but Cap. We were talking about a couple different.

Hank Stoever: Central ways to sort of ADD utility to L1 names beyond, just making them be tradable. So, hopefully working with Akira wallet and experts to support kind of equivalent functionality. that they already support for ns names. Looking into ways that something like That's does a Zone file update and seeing if that's the right approach but basically figuring out some way of doing zone file type things when it's on L1 and then on the DOT sets front, hopefully getting, further in terms of

Hank Stoever: A proposal or at least, laying out different proposals for implementing dot sets so that we can, get some feedback and move forward and ragnar, I'm happy to, help provide feedback or whatever, on that front.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, appreciate that. I think for you the next step for dots at that is basically kind of taking where you work on and then kind of tweaking out a little bit. It's Yeah, okay. I'll see what I can do, then I'll shoot it over to you and get your feedback.

Hank Stoever: Cool.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: yeah because hey, if we can get more layer one functionality I'd be great. so, Yeah.

Hank Stoever: Great.

Larry Salibra: Awesome.

Hank Stoever: And hopefully a demo and more info from paradigma on the open ID stuff.

Larry Salibra: Thanks everybody. I have to run two and let's continue this online. Sounds like released coming to agreement on what needs to be done. Thank…

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah. All right.

Hank Stoever: It cool. Thanks everyone.

Larry Salibra: Yep, still there. Bye.

Meeting ended after 00:27:32 👋
