# **BNS Working Group public meeting (2023-11-09 22:39 GMT+8) - Transcript**

## **Video**

https://youtu.be/dLo1aw6P0HI

## **Attendees**

3 id, Gina Abrams, Larry Salibra

## **Transcript**

_This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created._

Larry Salibra: In case call is being recorded. so there's a document going around about getting some thoughts done on what features would be in BNS 2.0 and right before we started this recording we're talking about whether or not features were 2.0 and also fixes for Nakamoto would be the same thing and my impression was that the fixes for Nakamoto would be also part of BNS 2.0.

Larry Salibra: so whoever's watching can claim it on that.

3 id: Yeah, I think it makes sense. I mean, I thought unless I haven't looked deeply into it. But The main issue around nakamot was just to block height, isn't it seems to relatively isolated issue if it is at all. I think someone was going to look into whether or not The implementing a new measure andâ€¦

Larry Salibra: Yeah, I think that is also the second thingâ€¦

3 id: block out to do this.

Larry Salibra: which I don't not sure is exactly Nakamoto. But is the inability to use Zone files use attachments from any other contract besides the existing BNS contract?

3 id: interesting

Larry Salibra: which is prevented BNS X from Doing a lot of things. you can't call the BNS contract and then update a Zone file from another contract. So maybe that would be something in there as well too. so I don't always everybody's time. I'm sorry. I just shared this document and Hank's looking for comments in that thoughts the things that he wrote, regarding what should be in BNS 2.0. I'm actually not sure why it's in a skiff doc instead of in a forum or something like that. But we can maybe move that later.

3 id: Should I find where if you shared that Larry? Is there a chat in here?

Larry Salibra: In call messages.

3 id: That will use Google me. Anyway, I'll be able to find it.

Larry Salibra: It's on the bottom right hand right corner. There's a little call-out bubble check everybody.

3 id: yes, there is you got it. Thank you.

3 id: Yes. Yes. No, I had seen this document. So I think

3 id: Save anything more complicated I can go in there and just dump all the sort of stuff. I've been thinking about as going from. New features of the small fixes I know as we can.

3 id: What's it called grace period doesn't actually exist to grace period exists but it doesn't work. You can still register things when they're in grace period obviously the charge in the costing one sort of thing.

Larry Salibra: mmm

3 id: That's come up a couple of times. in Discord community and more broadly is Whether or not it's a barriers and you joiners that it's quite complicated. we've got different namespaces that are price differently with different registration lengths. Something that occurred originally was some sort of standardization of that. However, I think I mentioned it to Hank and he said it probably won't be achievable. You can be very technically complex or perhaps more so that it's just overriding all of the rules that were originally so maybe it wasn't the right thing to do. I don't have any thoughts on that Larry.

Larry Salibra: I yeah.

3 id: I'm thinking some things can get expensive. So there's not many but Single Character like Letter dot ID's like 400 Stacks or something. Another aren't many of them. and then I'll quickly that ramps down but if stocks takes off and Gets where we wanted to come quite prohibitive. Less so problem for BTC.

Larry Salibra: Yes. Yeah, absolutely. my thought in general is sort of similar to what we need talked about at London, which is the need to sort of bring the l1l2 into resolve the conflict between the two and I think what Hank release last. Few days ago last week, just sort of the first step and that direction but I kind of see it as we're gonna have namespaces like dot sets exists outside of this tax contract and it makes sense. I think for that. be considered part of the Bitcoin name system. as with potentially a couple other domain names so I think that they're gonna have different features like they're gonna different maybe those are forever. Maybe these are every five years.

Larry Salibra: So I think it's gonna be hard to have all namespaces to have all the exact same rules. I mean, it's not even that case right now with the I can't domain names can only register.us if you're a certain type of identity you can write register other domain names based on the rule

3 id: Yeah, I think you're right and it's probably relatively Niche Thinking through the sort of registration things you have. Okay by nothing we should that's sounds interesting what you're suggesting about sort of. Bringing you this in essentially.

00:05:00

Larry Salibra: yeah, I mean, I just think we need to bring everybody in I mean our competition is I can not like Bitcoin L1, right so Yeah,â€¦

3 id: Yeah, where?

Larry Salibra: so I think the more people we can get in the big tent the better.

3 id: That's interesting. Yeah, one thing that raised it said in Discord today, which I didn't have a concrete and spoke because I guess nothing's technically built yet was around the complications of names that have been being Bridge back to L2 after we've deployed a new. base contract

Larry Salibra: Yeah, I haven't looked at how this is done. I'm not sure I don't know my sort of view is that this is a really interesting sort of quick hack I'm not sure how long term valuable would be â€¦

3 id: yeah, yeah.

Larry Salibra: if the markets are good Society. Hey, this is actually a name and I'm trading it then maybe there's a really strong motivation to figure out a way to make it work technically long term. but it's like people say hey, this is real clunky doesn't really solve a problem for me then. Maybe it was just an interesting experiment.

3 id: Yeah, yeah.

Larry Salibra: Cool, Gina anything else you'd like to talk about her or three?

Gina Abrams: No, I think. Since it's a small group, maybe we can. hop and work out of this document to try and come to consensus.

3 id: yeah that makes Yeah,â€¦

Larry Salibra: No, I agree. I think this getting content is done and then figuring out. the questions. Do you raise the documentary really the next thing we need to do?

3 id: that's unsensible to me. I'll go and spend the rest of the time putting some thoughts down to add to that documents. Then we start kicking idiots around.

Larry Salibra: awesome Thank you very much.

3 id: Cheers Larry did you?

Larry Salibra: See you later. Bye.

Meeting ended after 00:07:35 ðŸ‘‹
