# **BNS Working Group public meeting (2023-09-28 22:32 GMT+8) - Transcript**

## **Video**

https://youtu.be/fslzJRKpU-w

## **Attendees**

Don Ruiz, Gina Abrams, Hank Stoever, Larry Salibra, Mark Hendrickson, Patrick Stanley

## **Transcript**

_This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created._

Larry Salibra: Hi everybody. So last week, we are two weeks ago. We talked about the changes that needed to be made for the Nakamoto release of stacks with regards to this tax content contract.

Larry Salibra: So I thought we would today talk about what we found in what needs to be done. And then the second thing is, there's a proposal from console to try to make a Bns community on console. And I thought, I'd see who everybody thought about what we could do with that, to get that more visibility if you're not in that, I can send a link through to join. I'm Hank. Do you want to kick it off? I see Shared a link to get up.

Hank Stoever: And that plan sounds good. Yeah. So To catch everyone out with the Nakamoto upgrade, there will be faster blocks and in clarity, there's this keyword called block height and Bns and some other number of contracts use this blockhead keyword to sort of, roughly measure time. Assuming that, one block is roughly, 10 minutes. and in Nakamoto with faster blocks, there's a discussion about whether block height will Basically still mean what it is as in stacks block height but thus move a lot faster and since Bns relies on it for expirations and some other things, it's kind of a really critical change because essentially names would expire 120 times faster more than that, I don't know, very very fast.

Hank Stoever: So I've been in contact, mainly on Github with some of the core team members, I shared a link. I'm trying to respectfully kind of be like, Hey can we just get an answer, on whether or not this will be the case.

Hank Stoever: the only thing that I've really gotten on that is Basically saying until otherwise said, this change will occur and so, Bns will be kind of broken but then I don't know. There's also discussion about work or other solutions. So I don't have a clear answer yet. I don't know. you can read the discussion for more.

Larry Salibra: Okay, Yeah, I spent a bunch of time going through the Github repo as well and found it pretty difficult to, get a single, page view of what are the changes between these and the previous one?

Larry Salibra: So maybe that's just some general feedback we can share with the core team. I've shared a link to the Bns chat on console. And so, Chris was interested in creating community around that. I didn't really know what everybody else thought. I mean, my sort of feeling was, That's great, to add some ads and usefulness to Bns. But of course, then it's another chat client. and I personally have trouble keeping up with all the existing ones, so, I'd like to Hear you guys think? Yeah, I know. This is exactly. I do just like discord Mark.

Larry Salibra: and I seem to not be the only one, there's a really great thread this week by lane about Problems with discord. I think it keeps a lot of people out of conversations.

Patrick Stanley: Yeah, where are people hanging out right now for Bns and discord?

Larry Salibra: And I think there are different groups of people, different places.

Patrick Stanley: Nope. where's the most potent group hanging out today?

Hank Stoever: Good on discord. there's the Bns Dow discord as they've said, and I'd say It's very much the largest spot for community members. Not a lot of …

Patrick Stanley: No.

Hank Stoever: I don't know discussion, from builders although there is that as well.

Patrick Stanley: Interesting. So it's kind of like traders. Got it interesting.

Hank Stoever: yeah.

Patrick Stanley: And maybe we just asked them if they would want to move to console, it might not want to that might close out this topic.

Patrick Stanley: Not to rush over to.

Larry Salibra: Or we could or…

Hank Stoever:

Larry Salibra: we could say, we're moving to console. and then see if they do it instead of ask they want to.

00:05:00

Hank Stoever: yeah.

Patrick Stanley: The rest there is that you bifurcate the community and some turn where they otherwise wouldn't.

Larry Salibra: That's fine. I'm not there anyway so I don't really care.

Hank Stoever: my thought of it's a relatively discord and…

Patrick Stanley: Yeah.

Hank Stoever: I think saying, Hey,

Hank Stoever: What's force everyone move over? I don't know tricky or…

Patrick Stanley: Totally.

Hank Stoever: maybe doubtful. Yeah.

Larry Salibra: I don't think he's a force. I think you just say, Hey, There's this chat. this is the thing. you're speculating on your investing in or interested in and this is this chat that uses the thing that you like, so if you want, you can go over there and try it out.

Hank Stoever: And I think a different way to phrase It can all be that. Hey this I'm console. I don't know if we need to necessarily say it's for builders or something but we could say Hey it's not really about speculation. We want to kind of I don't know. yeah.

Patrick Stanley: maybe you mean the speculation, you're like, Hey everyone, you talk to here, owns the Bns name Verifiably. So, you're not dealing with a scammer or something like that.

Larry Salibra: Yeah, Patrick are using this for one of your communities.

Patrick Stanley: I yeah, yes and yes and I can save from experience it's really great what they've built so far, but it is a Slightly. deteriorated experience, and I think that's enough for People to really need a true native Web 3. Use case to move over there. I'm just hopping over that chat because people said So like that I don't think that's a good enough reason. I think people would not hang around Basically, you have to offer something that can't happen in discord. There.

Patrick Stanley: it's not like a 10x better product than discord unless people really value encryption or they really value knowing that they're talking to someone else who has ownership and Bns or something like that. That's the two things I can think of so far, maybe there's another one. but I think the job to be done is completed. pretty easily with discord as is

Mark Hendrickson: I agree that the main value proper console is just like the filtering of people who gets in who get into communities. So, Maybe be nice with benefit from that, but maybe not.

Patrick Stanley: yeah.

Larry Salibra: Do you think it's worth? A try. I mean, I'm like, I have it running here. It doesn't to me. It looks like a less cluttered discord, so I don't know if it's 10x better, but it's just different, So it depends on people is it worth even bring up as a discussion or are we wasting? Time and goodwill.

Hank Stoever: I think it's a worthwhile discussion. it's great that it uses Bns. I like Chris, I like console. But are we sort of like going to be able to kind of build a community there? And so some sort of thoughtfulness around I don't even know is they're gonna need moderation, who's responsible for that? How can we sort of bootstrap this community which what should the narrative sort of be?

Patrick Stanley: Yeah, that's…

Larry Salibra: But also, yeah.

Patrick Stanley: what You're right on that. I think. But there needs to be a crisp narrative that is put forward. Otherwise You're sort of debiting from the Bns communities, sort of like trust. It's like' what you come to us with?

Larry Salibra: That's a really good point. I'm also I guess a question of they don't get growing community there's a relatively difficult onboarding process. I guess I mean you needed to go through a specific path to get into it compared to there are some browsers that don't work, Because it only requires hero wallet leather and our experts, right? So if you get on safari, you're like this, you need to go you something else, As opposed to discord, which is sort of like this frictionless, no matter where you come from and you probably already have it now, so

Patrick Stanley: Right. Exactly.

Patrick Stanley: And Why don't we just set a message saying, Hey, for all for anyone that's interested. Console can allow Bns gated chats do it that information, what you will and we kind of leave it at that for now. And see if anyone picks it up. You'll literally see the demand. They can literally click a button and make it happen, right?

00:10:00

Larry Salibra: Yeah, there's I can just share the link that we just shared in the chat.

Patrick Stanley: Cool. maybe let's do that because I feel like we probably spent a few more minutes on this topic and then it's productively useful.

Larry Salibra: cool

Larry Salibra: that sounds good to me. I don't have anything else this week. I think we really need to get a better view until what changes are gonna be broken with the Sacramento release that seems to be the really important topic at the moment

Hank Stoever: I'd agree. I don't personally have other discussion topics except for that, I think. Regardless of, even if this block I think is it a total not an issue? And let's assume there's zero other issues, it's still worthwhile I think to Really pick up the momentum on the upgrade topic again, just because there's so many other benefits, in touch with other people who are interested in building, kind of unique. solutions on top of Bns and they're sort of limited by Some of the things that will, I've included as potential upgrades are potential features of the new Bns. So there are many reasons to, push forward and upgrade other than just this block, I think

Larry Salibra: Do you have a sense? now that we're, guess, more into the L1 L2, how things are playing out. I feel hanky of the most visibility and that you guys are sort of fingers in both layers. Do you see a threat to L2 from L1?

Hank Stoever: Let's see. I don't know that, I'd want to comment on sort of threat angle. I mean,…

Larry Salibra: But I mean threat…

Hank Stoever: I think it's important. Yeah.

Larry Salibra: but do you see them as competing or complementary?

Hank Stoever: competing. Yeah, I mean I think on the same level that With anything related to stacks is sort of competing with, a one-based or even other bitcoin layer-based, things.

Hank Stoever: I think it's like, the one aspect of the upgrade that I haven't, came to a really solid I don't know thought about is whether or how We should incorporate more native, features. I've thought about various different approaches, they all kind of like different pros and cons, but I think if we can come up with something that creates a much more I don't know, unified experience. That would be a really nice. Aspect of an upgrade.

Larry Salibra: Yeah. Absolutely. I mean ignoring technology but just having namespaces work, you registered in L1. It just automatically appeared in L2. Feels like that would be Sort of like the Holy Grail is.

Hank Stoever: Mm- Yeah, I mean the challenges how to do that. Without some sort of Core layer.

Hank Stoever: function, sort of like how you can transfer stacks via L1 transactions that's like…

Larry Salibra: Mmm.

Hank Stoever: because stax nodes are handling that sort of automatically, Something like that would be best. And then otherwise we'd have to build some sort of sink layered, Probably Permissioned. Just you get into for their downsides.

Larry Salibra: I mean, is there anything we could? Concretely ask the core team for that. Would enable this

Larry Salibra: one or two features.

Hank Stoever: yeah, I mean something like we want to add another kind of op code. That if you do use it and in an opportune similar how you do with these other operations it calls some specific Bns contract function.

00:15:00

Hank Stoever: I think something like that. I don't know. I suppose it's worth asking. It'd be best to sort of have something more specific than that.

Larry Salibra: Okay, I'm not close enough to know what exactly we would need. But I mean I don't know if that would if it's even too late, given the amount of stuff that's going on in the Nakamoto release. Probably too late to imagine.

Hank Stoever: Yeah.

Hank Stoever: I mean, I think the ultimate would be and I assuming it could be implemented reasonably that adding too many. Downsides would be something it's like something more generic or you can call Kind of generic stacked contracts and be via Bitcoin operations but I don't know, there's a lot of complexity there.

Hank Stoever: And I think that would certainly not be in Nakamoto. Yeah. I mean,…

Larry Salibra: I'm kind of surprised that it wasn't already there from the beginning, but The reasons.

Hank Stoever: how would you, if it involves for example, with Bns to register then we'd also have to support payment via Btc and thus do you deal with this. there's a lot of complexity so I definitely do understand why it's not easy thing.

Larry Salibra:

Larry Salibra: Okay.

Hank Stoever: even just from a factor of for civil protection, do you need to pay transaction fees? And you could argue that the bitcoin fees are relevant to that, but then it's not going to minors so you can start to mess up some of the incentives, but That's just like one, small angle.

Larry Salibra: Makes sense.

Larry Salibra: Don Gina anything to add. You guys are very quiet.

Don Ruiz: I'm very interested in a bns upgrade though. and I looked over the information and Hank provided in the form. Previously, I think that for us to kind of move forward and we're naming system and with additional tlds, kind of being introduced that I think we have to kind of Push it forward and try to keep step with some of the other naming systems that are right there that have more flexibility built into it. So, For me, that's an interesting topic. Curious, how we can kind of push that one forward.

Larry Salibra: yeah, I mean I think someone needs to write the update proposal and then Hey this is where I wrote Do you guys want to start using at this block, right.

Larry Salibra: Coin.

Hank Stoever: What do you think it would be better to do that on a? Individual feature basis or just this is the junk. Are you in or out?

Larry Salibra: I don't know. I think I mean given the Small size of the people involved, I would imagine. Probably doing it all as one would be easier.

Larry Salibra: Because it's more centralized than Bitcoin, there's fewer stakeholders involved at the moment And I think we know from our previous discussions what the contentious ones are, So that was easy for someone. Hey okay I'm gonna just remove that thing. I don't in propose it as a separate Solution.

Hank Stoever: Yeah,…

Hank Stoever: it's true. Yeah.

Larry Salibra: we do it all separately,…

Larry Salibra: you're gonna have six or seven changes that everybody agrees on it's like, okay, why didn't she put those

Hank Stoever: I've already started doing some work to clean up some of the forum posts that I've made in trying to turn into more of a Proposal format, there's a lot to do on that. But yeah, that's something that's been a much bigger priority for me, especially with this block hide stuff. But as I said, I think it's also just important no matter what

Don Ruiz: Yeah, I agree Hank I can work on that with you as well.

Hank Stoever: Okay.

00:20:00

Gina Abrams: and I think, it'd be good if we potentially

Gina Abrams: share that with the broader community, like a sip call or something. I think we don't necessarily need to follow the upgrade paths that other Sips have taken. But if we basically said, the proposal for this zip is to go live alongside the next hard fork. And just sort of getting more buy-in from a larger sector of the community could be beneficial and I can work with you Hank on that. In terms of sort of this zip process or just getting time for that. With the ongoing calls that happen.

Hank Stoever: And that'd be great. Absolutely.

Larry Salibra: That was interesting idea. I hadn't thought of trying to do it at the same time as the Nakamoto Fork. I don't know if that's what you were suggesting Gina But I sort of interpret it as that.

Larry Salibra: That would be interesting to think about. One hand,…

Gina Abrams: And that's adapted.

Larry Salibra: maybe it's two.

Gina Abrams: That's the drop dead timeline, right? That it would have to go live.

Larry Salibra: That's Depends on the answer that we get from About the block height, If the block height. isn't changing, it isn't a problem then it's not really interrupted date.

Gina Abrams: Yeah.

Hank Stoever: yeah, but I think Gina you're probably right. I think even if this block I think happens there's ways to create an upgrade that is shipped before Nakamoto instead of using block height, you can use burn block height, which won't change, because that'll always mean bitcoin height, but I don't know, yet what other clarity related changes will be made. So it's possible that there's something that we really, want that will be and not kamado and at which point to do. Okay, let's do this on day, one of Nakamoto but that's just something to further figure out.

Hank Stoever: for example, one of the Forum poses about C and Paying for name registrations with sptc maybe Purdue namespaces, maybe for WTC or something. Obviously if we wanted to do that, we'd have to wait till Nakamoto.

Patrick Stanley: Would that be like you convert into Bitcoin? To get into this PC and then register a name on Bns?

Patrick Stanley: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: Nobody has anything else. I think that's a pretty good for this week. I guess we convenient two weeks and see where we are.

Hank Stoever: Actually one last thought Larry, I don't know if you've seen this post on the Stacks Network discussions Github about changes to working groups. I don't know if you're familiar with that and

Larry Salibra: I was just reading it earlier today. Yeah.

Hank Stoever: So all right then we can just I don't know handle that instant good. I don't know if you have thoughts are whatever. Just want to make sure you've seen that.

Larry Salibra: Yeah, I don't know. what and in regards to that. what are your thoughts about that?

Hank Stoever: I don't know. I mean, are you the lead of this working group? I'm not.

Larry Salibra: It's just called a working group. It has nothing to do with this tax foundation. there's seen I read through and…

Hank Stoever: Right. Right.

Larry Salibra: I just thought, Wow there's a lot of bureaucratic Complexity and whatever's going on here.

Hank Stoever: And at the same time, it's

Larry Salibra: I just created a reoccurring meeting so that we can get people thinking about this regularly and have notes created, I mean if it makes sense to integrate this into whatever this tax foundation is running, that's fine. But I think huge comment on one of the things was some of the suggestions sounds like a lot of work and it does feel like we're having to post notes and do this stuff every week. So yeah, I don't know I mean if someone wants to look into that it says, hey this makes more sense to be part of that, I'm perfectly happy with that.

Hank Stoever: Yeah, I think it's just like we should ask, I definitely see the value of having a more cohesive way for people to get visibility into these different work streams and also just be able to get more visibility and involvement in Bns. So from that aspect, I think, could be pretty useful.

00:25:00

Larry Salibra: Let me know if you have any actionable steps on that.

Hank Stoever: Thank you all later.

Larry Salibra: Alright. Thanks everybody.

Patrick Stanley: Hello.

Mark Hendrickson: He just hanging out.

Patrick Stanley: Yeah, no worries. I'm Jason and I had an idea yesterday that I think is, hey.

Mark Hendrickson: He's back.

Patrick Stanley: Did Jason and I had an idea yesterday.

Meeting ended after 00:25:37 👋
