# **BNS Working Group public meeting (2023-07-20 22:32 GMT+8) - Transcript**

## **Video**

https://youtu.be/CuV5Twz2kQo

## **Attendees**

3 id, Deloon M, Don Ruiz, Gina Abrams, Larry Salibra, Mark Hendrickson, Patrick Stanley, Pedro Reis Colaço, Ragnar Lifthrasir, Tommy Butcher

## **Transcript**

_This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created._

Larry Salibra: Okay, so welcome I think today is a good opportunity to take some time to discuss some of the issues around. Thanks for imposts about Bns names and L1 there's been a lot of really good discussion on the Forum and sometimes it helps to have a bit more discussion vocally in real time and then maybe we can use that time for this. What is everybody think?

3 id: Yep, sounds great.

Larry Salibra: Okay, I'm going to share a link to that just in case what I'm talking about.

Larry Salibra: Hey, Mark.

Mark Hendrickson: Married.

Larry Salibra: so we're going to talk today about the form, discussion, about being those names, and L1, It's and anybody want to go first. I'm sort of like I want to sit in a sidelines in this and your people think because I think there's a lot of good arguments on both sides.

Larry Salibra: You want to go? What do you think about the proposal that Hank put up?

3 id: I'm happy to go if everyone's waiting to jump in, so I was on the TM held spaces the other day with Ragnar around and some of the dot SATs people around. I know Ragnar's suggestions, different Hanks, but some of these issues sort of came up. So I'm not deep in the weeds on, Hank's proposal technically, I think it's a super good idea. My only sort of hesitancy was around. when you inscribe onto L1, there needs to be some sort of connection between the wallet and the Bns ownership, because If it were just a patent. So let's say it was something like three dot id slash Bns or whatever we decided the inscription would look like to represent our bridge version. If that is then burnt to come back to Bns and make that operational again. And then in the future you want to bridge again a schumably this to the sort of first is first principle.

3 id: Tied on the L1 side. So if it's a recognizable pattern that isn't tied in some way to each new inscription by a new owner or whatever. You see what I mean? something like a timestamp, but that wouldn't be robust enough because that's still patentable. So you need something that almost can't be replicated by a bad actor.

Larry Salibra: you're talking about the image that he's the SVG or something that he's suggesting to.

3 id: So, for example, if that SVG were the same on the second inscription, so if I inscribed it bridged back to Bns then I sold the bns to you. And you then didn't inscription, if that inscription was identical to the one, originally people outside of our relationship could spot that pattern and could do inscriptions that would then clash without ever owning the Bns. I mean

Larry Salibra: Yeah, I was also a little bit confused about how that worked and why I need to be an image. And Stuff like that. But it should be something that's very clearly. It seems like there's no way to prevent someone from being Something, If there's anything Unscribing, reinscribe it again. So there has to be a first. Principle but then also I mean it's important to have built to verify so if you make an image has to be something that's very clearly. if I compare two of them I can figure which one it is. I actually don't really understand why it needs to be an image. Maybe I miss that.

3 id: Yeah, I don't know. I guess it's more difficult to fake perceptually. Not sure.

3 id: But you're on a fundamental level I think it's a great idea. utility that I'm excited about is it lets you then trade on the L1 liquidity will let you do things in that ecosystem in the hyper around that but still maintain your Bns functionality and the option to come back so a lot of fundamental level I think it's a good proposal.

Larry Salibra: Yeah, I was a little bit confused about, so I understand the trading and I understand how that works, but I really actually kind of said, Ragnar just dropped up because I saw his comment and I also don't really understand from an application perspective. If you're ultimate goals to make names usable, then, doesn't this mechanism prevent those from being used or And do you have to write two sets of libraries? So, if the name is on L1, login resolving is like this, and if it's on but Resolving these different way.

3 id: Yeah, I'm not sure about that. It's a good question.

Larry Salibra: I would just be concerned about creating. I mean, that's great to get people trading but then, if you criticism is basically unusable, but for anything else? I mean That sounds not great either.

00:05:00

Larry Salibra: Does anybody else know how that works? If you Ragnar does.

Larry Salibra: No.

3 id: From what was said, on the spaces yesterday it's been and I think it was Ragnar who mentioned it in relation to his up once the Bns would have to to be locked, would have to be wrapped in a smart contract and therefore would be unusable while you would, operating in the L1 side. I'm not sure if I think technically you should have a build out That could accommodate that depending on what the rapper smart contract was but I'm not technical enough on this stuff to guarantee that and I don't think Hank's proposal contains anything to sort of Work around that but perhaps Ragnar that he's joined back, could speak more to them.

Larry Salibra: Heroes.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, can you hear me? Okay?

Larry Salibra: Yeah, so to say we're just trying to talk about some of the forum discussion and I was really interested by the point that you made about who names are locked, via thanks proposal, they become unusable for applications. So my question was just generally for people does that mean is the intent that that names will just not be usable to only be tradable on our L1? And if that's the case doesn't seem like people would want to use them on L1 or if they're going to use them on one does that mean to we as application developers or wall developers like Mark do they have to support to flows for? If the name is an L1 I do authentication and if it's on L2 I do vacation do anything about anything about that?

Ragnar Lifthrasir: I can speak with first-time knowledge for trade, Because it would impact trade in users. Absolutely. Because when you wrap the name, you change the address of the name and our system will detect that and will then kind of close that profile down. And the reason why we do that is, there's a danger that people will build up the student on this This identical identity and track their name to someone else, which sort of defeats the purpose, right? And so to do that, why we have to hold that accounts, when the name changes addresses, it's kind of a strict rule, there's maybe some technical workarounds to that, which are a little messy but as right now that's how it will.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Trade in and, I mean, not like my own book here, but it seems like as I understand again, is the only reputation and I didn't have on stacks even bitcoin in a sense. And so bns, the whole purpose is to have this decentralized, identity and naming system. I think It's a little tough to hear. that's okay because we want to be able to have a little more uniformity and simply trading names. So I'm very, very skeptical of being off of locking Bns names removing their utility. Just to have one more thing to trade on especially when it's not necessary so you can have lay on BBC games.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Lots of liquidity without locking up name. the obvious downside to that as well. It might be different owner of Dot TC game and a different owner, but he bns name. But me, I think that's fine. People are smart enough to understand what that is. people are already used to that. I'm okay, so I can go on for that's my long answer to your short question. Larry

3 id: Ragnar can I jump in quick? And I know we spoke on the spaces. Yesterday was quite useful for me. If we took trading aside. So I know we've heard a discussion around those rules and you would close the account if Technically the Bns moved, the recipe that being wrapped us all or whatever, if we just parked that for a second in a more broad sense. The Bns being wrapped doesn't make it unusable. If you didn't have that stipulation is that right or my wrong?

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, but it is wrapped. And so you…

3 id: There.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: we're not going to change it, it's not just us so it is possible effect. Siegel this will affect console. And it'll affect other future applications, so I Get to seagull a day or to go and maybe they did say that, if a name is Raps, basically, it doesn't really work. So it's not just us. it's like, Other apps as well and…

Larry Salibra: Yeah. But that's…

Ragnar Lifthrasir: future apps. And I

Larry Salibra: but because just that's the way the libraries work right now and I understand you're concerned about transferring it and that's definitely noted. I like instead of thinking about specific apps just think of it. from a really high level is the intent to pitch this as users as okay. you're putting your name in trading mode on L1 and it's like in trading mode you can't like points that stuff, you can' you can't login with it. And then once it's out of trading mode, trading it I mean, I wasn't want to use it, I have to transfer it back to stacks to use it. Is that the theory or is the plan

00:10:00

Larry Salibra: It's gonna stay on L1 and people can point to that stuff and people can log in with it. Because if it's the second one then there's going to be need to be two who's literally two systems. There's now one system and an L2 system and L2 has smart contracts on what does not so they're totally different gonna be different, And so it's more like, how it's positioned is it's like is the link positioned as you can trade it on L1, but to use you need to move back to L2. Or is it something else and maybe, Hank's probably the one to answer that? Get us up,…

Ragnar Lifthrasir: yeah, I probably

Larry Salibra: trying to come up with technical solutions. If you want to have it both ways or don't have it both ways.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, I think that's a hang question that I couldn't join us. Maybe you will. But yeah, I mean you bring up a good point which is trading. So there's utility and there's trading to me getting rid of the utility on L2. When you don't need just to trade these L1 dot btc names as far as I understand. It will just be trading. There's not really utility that you can do there other than accepting Big Point pains to that name, That's the only thing, which to me, really that idea, because that really hurts your privacy to having a static address for all your bits. If people want to make that decision they can, right? So, yeah, and Larry, there was some cool way to be able to have both days where one person holds both names on both chains.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: But on play on stats, that name is so usable. I could see, that could be a good thing. I'm not smart enough to know how to do that, but maybe there is and one other point I'll bring in. And then, I'll let someone else jump in here. Is that what's ultimately probably gonna just be names on or else? It's gonna be the big marketplaces, so the most volume are you just magic eaten ordinals wallet, basically very, comes up and down. Basically, those are the ones and you just eating an ordinal law already. So this is all sort of just academic extra space. Unless at least those three marketplaces are consulted and say, Hey, teams. this is what we're thinking over here for our version of Doug, you guys support No, it's to confusing. We already have that PTC names.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: then, what do we do that? That's my question.

Larry Salibra: Yeah, confusion is also a big issue. this week, Somebody came up to me and said, Hey, I'm trying to renew Dot ID. I'm trying to use your app to do it. It's not working. What's wrong? And I found out that the reason it wasn't working with, because they had actually wrapped it in a smart contract to trade it, on Gamma or something like that. So it actually wasn't owned They weren't the owner anymore. And so Whenever you add this complexity stuff just breaks and it becomes hard to reason about. So I definitely sensitive to that. I'm just to jump back. I don't want to sort of attack you here, but I mean Ragnar the problem with I understand your concerned about transferring names and it's definitely totally legitimate. But the problem is you can always transfer names and there's no way to prevent it if my stacks address is a ledger right? I can just give the ledger to Mark or give it to tone Tommy, right? And There's nothing you can really do about that because I can always transfer the private key.

Larry Salibra: So I don't really see how I mean, I understand the problem, but I think you're trying to solve an unsolvable problem. Unless I totally missing something.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, I appreciate that Larry. so I think transferring a private key is an edge case. because if your private key, you still have the private keynote to people have a very key. So, why I would

Larry Salibra: I could be like a hardware. It's in the hardware device. I've never written it down, we were both there, we made mean, it's like not. I mean, hardware security models are thing, right?

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, I think that's such an edge case. I think, what people do is they just transfer games to New Adverty by someone, or transfer. For some reason, I

Larry Salibra: Yeah, we'll do that now but if you're successful or when you're successful and there's a lot of value around that identity, dude, if the identity is worth 100 million US dollars. I'm gonna figure out how to transfer that. Anything maybe I just sell the company. Maybe the name is owned by a company is an organization, Just sell the company. All the employees come with it, if there's value around it, people can transfer it. it's

00:15:00

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, I think that that's the thing when you're building apps. You got to think of all the weird edge cases. What's the financial incentives? How much money does it take to get risk? I personally would never buy a private key simply because that person could tell you, they don't have a copy, they didn't write down the seed words or whatever I would, never believe them, especially when movies online. There's a possible. but your larger point Larry portrayed and we are looking at, kind of fall back. What happens if people do do it is the way that we could flag it or come up with some other solution. It's just authority. as I just one more thing to build one more company…

Larry Salibra: And I get it's a hard problem.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: but I don't want to offer

Larry Salibra: I just wanted for the sake of discussion about the name system, I think it's looking at the actual address owner and saying that That's the person hasn't changed that's a weird proxy and I don't think We should build this system under that assumption because assumptions really not it's impossible to enforce I do.

3 id: I also think if

Larry Salibra: But I do think that the problem that you have where if you transfer the name to layer one nothing else works like That's a really important question to address.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: If you transfer the Bns name to layer one.

Larry Salibra: Yeah, I mean You can't point to stuff except for it, right? You need to essentially design an entire separate logic set of logic for Pointing names and stuff logging in with them etc.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, not sure. I totally Paul. But I could ask you afterwards About.

Larry Salibra: I'm just saying that. if you want to update a layer two name, you call a certain method in the stacked smart contract. If you want to update a layer one name there's a totally different way to do that. It requires, inscribing, something else, perhaps? Right, so there's two paths. So from a wallet's perspective, there's two past, it's like using lightning using on chain Just saying so there's two different code paths and so my question is the intention for everybody do we want to position this As when names are on L1? They're just for trading or do we want to implement two separate Name management systems.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Your point. Yeah, you might come down to what I think 99% of people are thinking. This is just a way to trade. and that's why I think there should be such a strong wrapping connection because they should just be untethered to prevent complication. Now people could say Hey look at I mean I'm gonna build Some app that with login, your ordinal name like it's possible. People will build up the other thing. So, I don't know. Maybe the lottery picture. Is we even have stacks names Dot Btc on layer one? Just In general. regardless of the approach, I don't know, maybe

Larry Salibra: Don. Do you know, any thoughts?

Gina Abrams: I think I had actually asked that on the forum in terms of what would be the user experience for folks then Who ultimately, sort of meant their name on the L1, so, yeah, similar questions. I don't have any additional answers but

Gina Abrams: I do. a pretty fascinating thing that also I think if we're talking about the Bitcoin Name system being able to support it to the L1 and then potentially having more functionality, follow could be a pretty compelling

Gina Abrams: Just evolution of the protocol. So I'm curious to learn more details from Hank. I wonder if we could do I wonder if it's possible to almost have a general

Gina Abrams: Question about it over Twitter spaces or something. That's maybe a little bit more open to the community. There's also I know maybe hearing from the Bns Dow folks.

Larry Salibra: Yeah, sure.

Gina Abrams: Getting more people involved in the conversation would be good. But yeah, I feel like it's still early. I still have the same similar questions.

3 id: Yesterday a follow-up to the TM spaces Gina, our Ragnar was on the one yesterday. And Hank wasn't so suggested run, the same thing again. With Hank there, which they seemed up for and keep an eye on their twitter. Looks like they're going to be running some

00:20:00

Larry Salibra: Please make it earlier.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah. Yeah,…

Larry Salibra: 1 am so late.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: we could have done it earlier. That was a good Twitter space, I thought kind of productive, but I think magic in orbitals wallet and UNICEF should be contacted because if they say, we're not going to do your version of things.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: I mean that seems really really Really tough. and now if Gamma supports a great gamut, if you look ALNIG graphs like you're kind of not even there. No offense again but they're not. And so I think unistat magic eating and cornell's wallet should be contacted. This is what we're thinking, maybe there's a way for them to denote that DC this is Btc S or BPC plus or whatever, maybe that's the way to know the differences. just like there's just cash bitcoin is be and to give anyone burn but that is a way that people know the difference. Just by the name. But I think those three companies should be contacted very early. Otherwise, we're gonna spin our wheels and be like, can't trade East is no marketplace with any volume support them.

Larry Salibra: Makes sense.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: I only know, the guy Ordinals wall, I know him he was at the conference, but I don't have a great contact unison or magic.

Larry Salibra: Wait, what? Sounds like a good next step is to have a more community focused. Twitter space and talk more about technical. it's not really technical details, I would frame it more as product positioning, how do we want the integration to look? is it names are active when they're on stacks and then they become into trading mode or is that they can be used in both, I mean, I personally, Think they should be usable on both. But that's why I was asking the question. I want to get a sense to other people thought.

3 id: I think we thought needs.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: One last thing I'll throw up. Alright, go ahead.

3 id: Thank you, just quickly. I think we need a community, led water. People want to see discussion and we need a technical discussion. Because if, for example, Hank's proposal involves pairing the two in both remain active, that might be 10 times more work than a lighter proposal. So when you find out what people want and then understand what's technically possible within a reasonable amount of time, would seem sensible to me and that technical discussion might not be the same one as a sort of community. The subset that are interested in the technical.

Larry Salibra: Yeah, I I agree. I think it's important to find people want, but then also also figure out what the product positioning and what it would look like, because I feel like the, I mean, great proposal from Hank, but I was a little bit confused at what's being built. it's sort of, like, this is how we build it, but then, I'm not really sure. and I understand they're being linked, but it's not clear Okay, once this is done, what do we have?

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, and Larry you brought up a really good point in the last meeting talking about. So I brought up about SATs he brought up the point. maybe we should kind of think about that as well. When we take that overall thoughts, that's on Bns and should that be part of the discussion about Btc to be a cohesive way to position? This is a product, maybe not, but I think we should talk about that. with interesting about Dot SATs is there's more or no dots that's named and there are stacks Bns names. Right. So that's kind of it.

Larry Salibra: yeah, surprising

Ragnar Lifthrasir: and if we can so for people who don't know, I own the Dot SATs Bns namespace, so it'd be interested, I'm working on how to do that in different people like different approaches but the point is that if we can have a nice way to onboard all those steps holders and give them very quickly name on Bns, we just doubled the number of Bns users. Now I know there's over a local people already stacks people around the Dot sounds, a lot of overlap but still I think numbers are very very compelling. So my prep is that we have one cohesive way where we say hello market. Bitcoin We're stacks people. We have this idea to do from L2 to L1. This is how we're thinking about it. So it's adhesive because I wouldn't want the dust standard conflict. The dot name, I mean talk about infusion

Larry Salibra: Absolutely I think it's seems totally a hundred percent obvious to me. That didn't it to go. I mean if we take top Sassin versus L2 it just be standard, both ways. there's no reason to we should make different standards. But that's just obvious onboarding thing.

00:25:00

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, and…

3 id: Definitely gone.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: that's why.

3 id: Okay, Getting users is sort of key in my head, the L1 stuff. I don't dabble in the L1. So on the interface is personally but accessing that user base to bring it over and interact with. It is definitely key.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, because the way I would want to handle the Dot SATs, name Bns, I would prefer that it be consistent with Btc ordinal if we should do that even at all maybe we should do that. I don't know. But I prefer that.

Tommy Butcher: I'm gonna circle back around to Magic Eden, and I do have a contact at Magic even, but it is contingent on Another possible deal. So just keeping that in mind, we might have an opening there at some point.

Larry Salibra: We're getting updated into the end of the half hour for this so I propose that we continue this on the forum thread and then who can take responsibility for scheduling another Twitter space. Perhaps a little bit earlier in the day. Who did have awesome anyway now. Trust machine, right?

3 id: Yep, it was done.

Gina Abrams: Yeah, I can follow up with our team.

Larry Salibra: Nobody.

Don Ruiz: Yeah, we can follow up on Brandon and…

Larry Salibra: Okay. Yeah.

Don Ruiz: the team here.

Larry Salibra: Maybe around this time, but that would be good for me after you.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: They're gone. I didn't make the connection Don that who you were.

Don Ruiz: Yeah. Hi Ragnar. We're going to be chatting tomorrow. Okay?

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, we're talking about. I just whole time and he knows the same. Okay.

Don Ruiz: No, It's all good. and my thoughts are same as yours Larry. I'll just put a note there have to go but it What's the attention for the utility on L1 from Hank and that's a big question mark and once we have that answered and kind of get some communicate consensus on that you kind of move forward with next steps and kind of figure this out. But until we have that one that seems like the question to answer.

Larry Salibra: Let's continue discussion online and then also on the next spaces.

Don Ruiz: Great bio.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: I think, yes.

Larry Salibra: Thanks everybody.

Meeting ended after 00:27:52 👋
