# **BNS Working Group public meeting (2023-10-12 22:32 GMT+8) - Transcript**

## **Video**

https://youtu.be/V1v8z7LFfs0

## **Attendees**

Don Ruiz, Gina Abrams, Hank Stoever, Larry Salibra, Mark Hendrickson, Nattaja, Snazzy 888

## **Transcript**

_This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created._

Larry Salibra: Hi. Welcome to the Venus Working Group meeting. This week, I thought we would talk about moving this into the Stacks Foundation. Template. I took a little look at that last few days, it seems like it would help us get More visibility. But also I was thinking that we could reduce the scope just create a group traps. It's just focus on an upgrade. just like that, the scope of it is just to get 2.0 upgrade that satisfies the issues that we have for the Nakamoto release. And anything else that needs to be into that out? And sort of doesn't necessarily talk about Layer 2 and Layer 1 and other side of things.

Larry Salibra: One, throw that out there.

Larry Salibra: Good.

Larry Salibra: So what we could talk about objectives for that and deliverables, which is one thing to do and who wants to lead that as well. Or we can talk about other things, I don't know, Hank has any updates you'd like to share or snazzy. Anybody else Nicole?

Hank Stoever: I'm happy to discuss this working group thing.

Hank Stoever: On my end, as we talked about last time, I've been just doing a bunch of work to try and get this whole Bns upgrade. situation to something a bit more concrete. There are probably a majority of sort of the posts that I made on the form. I think are At least. pretty uncontroversial, and also Easy to implement, it's sort of defined appropriately Not that the post itself, couldn't use more definition but it's not something where I'm like, I have the idea but I don't know exactly even how it would work. And then there are food posts where either I think it's unclear whether it's a Sort of good thing to include but also how it could or should be done.

Hank Stoever: So, I don't know. we could do both. I could talk about those after we talked about this working group then

Larry Salibra: Sorry, I needed. you don't have to raise your hand.

Nattaja: From us. So sorry.

Larry Salibra: Go ahead. Just jump in.

Nattaja: So I have a question. when you start edit support for bitcoin names at ordinals, so,

Nattaja: how will it be managed now? We need to mark.

Nattaja: Leather wallet. I will manage ordinals names if you will move Bonest to layer one.

Nattaja: How we will manage it. because, for example,

Nattaja: we have a different. so before that, it was very easy because only sad the north wallet didn't manage,

Nattaja: This ordinals names. but from today, With new updates. As they support them. So what should we do now?

Nattaja: I hope you understand me really sorry.

Hank Stoever: The problem.

Nattaja: My English is terrible. I know.

Hank Stoever: I think so. Is the question sort of

Hank Stoever: A. relating to this in progress scope of work around until a bridge to move a Bns name to Ordinals and back, how you'll manage them.

Nattaja: Know how we will manage duplicators.

Hank Stoever: Mmm.

Nattaja: Because now we will have duplicators.

Hank Stoever: Do you mean people…

Mark Hendrickson: That's it.

Hank Stoever: who are just Go ahead, Mark.

Nattaja: Yeah. Yeah.

Mark Hendrickson: I think I understand the concern as market confusion around. The resolution of or no based names to certain addresses and bns names to other dresses. So go to no send to a username in leather. you might get a different recipient address, versus to go to us at And put the same value in. Because there are basically looking up in different systems that part

00:05:00

Nattaja: We will have the same name. I told the nose in leather and the same name, but with different address. At Unisad.

Nattaja: It's look like, it's And that's not. So, It's, as I said, Unisadum. Make it from last update. This book, just one day. Maybe you should talk to them. Maybe they can. Just Give it up and I don't know what to do now.

Larry Salibra: Your question, but it's really a question for it. Literally anything in crypto, you can take a copy of Bitcoin Core rename, it, as Selena, Right? Just Change the name and then save Selena and tell people, It's Selena, how do people know? It's not so anno? It's because people have a belief in which set of rules are the thing that they're trying to use. so in this case like you can I mean even with the Legacy DS system you can create infinite number of copies of that, you can just run you can have your own network Microsoft.com or resolve to something totally different than what it does for what people consider to be the right DNS and that happens actually frequently people use that as a tool like a feature on a bug. So I don't know.

Larry Salibra: I mean, I think if we want our implementation of Dot Btc to meet other people's implementation of Dot BDC then it needs to better adoption and your right. So maybe some people can talk to wallets maybe it's about making the tools easier for while people to integrate. Maybe it's about getting people to run their own nodes software validates these rules. I mean there's a whole bunch of different approaches. So I understand your And it's not a new problem. It's a problem that every game crypto has you can just call it something else, right? And then go okay is this really bitcoin all the bitcoin cash? okay. You believe it's Bitcoin cash. That now we have to just fight it out and the arena of ideas.

Nattaja: Okay, I'm good.

Mark Hendrickson: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: social media, I mean if you have a certain view on which one should be the real dot BBC, then you need to write about it, you need to convince your friends, mean that's just everybody does, It's a communications problem. I'm not sure one person can solve it. It's just like the market naturally will solve it.

Nattaja: Okay.

Mark Hendrickson: Disregard.

Nattaja: So This is the question about X squares wallet. they will. Implement such Those thoughts names. They're valid, if you will move to ordinals organized names, will they implement? This is a question. If you will have a two wallets leather. And excavators. It will be much better.

Snazzy 888: I'm in touch with experts,…

Mark Hendrickson: Yeah.

Snazzy 888: roughly But, I think this is one What are the issues that we've always seen for a number of months now? And that is kind of overcoming the conflicts that are out there because there's not just kind of one wtc on ordinals, I think there's several now and there's just more and more being created and this is one of the things that We need to figure out how I can just sort of overcome this, and how because this dilution, obviously it's not great for Bns and WTC and so this is something that I think is just really. Important for all of us. I think just kind of To talk about and come up with, and

Snazzy 888: Coordinate, I think this is kind of one of the things I don't think that kind of the Bns community, the developers, the council, etc, etc. So there's one thing that we've just not been doing very well and that is coordinating things together. and I think, In Hank, you practically finished the solution. any of the L2 to one solution, So it's a case. I think really in essence kind of what we need is we just need far better coordination and far better communication, as to kind of how things are going to get done, and so that we know exactly what everyone is doing. Conversations that everyone has had communication with other marketplaces and things. Because

00:10:00

Snazzy 888: I think for the future of Bns, This is how things get done. And this is how things get done, effectively and efficiently. Otherwise, The thing that I worry about is that we're just going to continue sort of fumbling our way forward, instead of actually being very structured and doing things very sort of efficiently and effectively. This is one of my key concerns personally. So, it's not that we haven't done a fantastic things and obviously, this solution Hank that you develops is, it's going to be great. Because it's really important to Ensure that the Bns community has choice. Ultimately if they want to be on the L1 they want to be on Bitcoin it's perfectly fine. If they obviously want to stay on stacks. And obviously, stacks is the application layer, the smart contract layer. that's fine as well, but

Snazzy 888: I think, we definitely need sort of more coordination, more communication, and more of a sort of a concrete, sort of plan going forward as to kind of This is the direction that Bns is going in. This is what we're going to achieve over a certain period of time. And yeah, I think we just need a little bit more of a structured approach. I'm sort of just throwing it out there. This is sort of how I'm feeling at the moment in a way because I'm noticing that there's A distinct lack of coordination and communication at times. And, it's no one's following, but I think we just all need to Come together and communicate better. So yeah, just my thoughts.

Mark Hendrickson: yeah, just quickly that I didn't get on both of your questions that I think if we're gonna talk about unison or noticeable, ordinals wallets like addition of dot. SATs first receipt, I'd like to have as part of this group. So let's we got the first step. What's invite them to join us for this, right? So we actually discuss their views on this because maybe we have pretty overlapping interests after all, we just haven't had that chat with them. And I'm saying with x first, you got a question about X first. let's have them here as well. That's sure. I think it's in before or recently but I mean.

Larry Salibra: This time was specifically chosen for Ken because he could make it. So that's why we're at this time. But then I don't think you actually ever made it.

Mark Hendrickson: but yeah, I think just yet if we're gonna collaborate, we need more people at the table because otherwise, we do have sort of piecemeal To the representation. So

Mark Hendrickson: Maybe there's somebody else from their teams too because I know Ken's really busy. But

Larry Salibra:

Snazzy 888: Yeah, me too.

Larry Salibra: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: Let me pm from experts and see it. Maybe he knows. Who could come from his team.

Snazzy 888: so this is kind of I think the bns.

Snazzy 888: Yeah, say that we just need to have A structured planners to kind of what is happening with regards to Bns? not only is development but it's advancement. How do we increase adoption? The Bns. because, in 10 years time,

Snazzy 888: that's going to be on stacks. Or Is it going to be elsewhere? is it going to be just purely on Bitcoin? Is it going to completely move over to Bitcoin in 10 years time? Is this bit VM thing going to be a big deal?

Snazzy 888: I think there's lots of things that we just kind of need to, continue to discuss in more detail and just as Mark was saying as well.

00:15:00

Snazzy 888: we need to invite, the founders of UNICEF, on these calls. we need to invite the experts guys, on I mean, I've said, I've been separately, having conversations and, in terms of kind of the communication and the coordination fronts. I'll hold my hand up and say, I've had communication with a couple of ordinals marketplaces and perhaps haven't effectively communicated that with yourself Larry and Hank and

Snazzy 888: So yeah, I think going forward yeah we just need to have a bit more of a structured approach. and yet invite these guys on because ultimately, at the end of the day, what we're trying to do is we're trying to advance Bns we won't be an S to improve. We won't be in a square. We want more people to be on boarded into Bns. So

Snazzy 888: Yeah, I'll leave it there. Yes.

Larry Salibra: But that's great. I agree with all the feedback. It's totally obvious but we're not doing like and I also take personal responsibility for what I'm not doing. I think as Gina posted a message about the upgraded working model, I think one thing that would help is if we have actual deliverables and what are we actually trying to do? and it seems all of these things are very important but it seems like they're not going motor release. and the fact that that's probably going to need a hardcore upgrade, no matter what because of if you want renewal to continue working and those sort of things that's seems to be the obvious opportunity to also put through some other updates.

Larry Salibra: And so, perhaps, if we focus a group of people on working on that and then another group could be focused on marketing and interaction with marketplaces and stuff like that. Because I think it's just too much for a couple people to handle.

Hank Stoever: Yeah. Yeah. I think it does tie back into the working group. model thing because the whole purpose of it is to just allow more clarity on just visibility, if other people want to know what's going on, Then also How do I get involved? What are they up? What are the actual work strings going on? What are the updates there? There's some more accountability, on RMS and I don't think it's like just myself we could all just do better on that front so yeah.

Snazzy 888: Is there a good collaboration tool that we can use?

Larry Salibra: Okay.

Snazzy 888: I don't know notion I've just been introduced to skiff which is the first time I've kind of used and seen that I've just been introduced to that by Will so, I don't know if any of you got any recommendations for collaboration tools that we can just very quickly, kind of type notes on or edit or, say such and such has done this such and such has done that.

Larry Salibra: I mean there was something. I mean I'm taking notes on Google Docs right now, you can use whatever he wants.

Hank Stoever: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: But It seems like that's more of a question for the people that are what you want to collaborate something right now what? I guess I don't really understand. I mean originally I created a github repo for this group a while back. I've been putting links to notes and videos there. I'm not sure I'm gonna actually follow it, Maybe it would get more visibility if those go into The Stacks Network repo. I'm not really sure how to actually call that either like that Mark had to ask for a lid to the working group thing tells me, he doesn't follow it. So Not to criticize you,…

Snazzy 888: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: I didn't follow either until last week like Hank said, Hey look at this right? And then I went and looked it up but I don't follow discord so I'm not the forum. It just did. People are over the place,…

Snazzy 888: Yeah. that's a good point,…

Larry Salibra: so I think

Snazzy 888: Larry. Let's meet in the middle. So, …

Larry Salibra: Yeah.

Snazzy 888: say obviously you're not on discord and I've found it very, very difficult to contact you on discord. But I don't hang about on get a github much, to be honest and even the stacks forum as well. So, maybe we need a really easy place that we can kind of just update each other. don't know if anyone's use notion or if people prefer trello or whatever other collaboration, sort of project management

00:20:00

Larry Salibra: Hello trello. There's a blast from the past.

Larry Salibra: I mean Gina just scared bns console. I mean, so you missed this last week There was a talk like a Chris from console wants us to try a Bns community on that and…

Snazzy 888: No.

Larry Salibra: you can only log in with your BBC name. Would that be something you'd be interested in? That's he, I mean we know everybody's in discord.

Snazzy 888: Yeah, I'd be fun. Yeah.

Gina Abrams: just to sort of add a little bit more color, I wanted to I feel like it's something. We could literally try out just for casual chat. In terms of being what are you up to or are we posting this on the forum, sharing updates? I'm not advocating to try and totally change tools from discord but maybe just because I feel like there's kind of a small group of stakeholders who are in these calls on a regular basis. And so if we just wanted to keep each other updated, test it out, if That would be just one idea. I agree that there's about a million project management tools. I think if we do start on the working group model, will probably be pushed to utilize Github for some sort of regular updates there. But I was just thinking for sort of the more casual chat that happens. They think if y'all would be open to trying it.

Don Ruiz: That's a great idea And at least if we do have, a primary source of to go, we can always link to the other pieces from there but right now we don't even have that primary place to go to find out where the other information we may actually live. And, some people may prefer base camp, some people may use asana and for different projects and that's fine. As long as we can access it and you can link to it through, console, for example, which I think is a great idea to try, it accomplishes other things as well. we're kind of eating our own dog food. when it comes to that which I think is important for this community in order to flourish and grow.

Snazzy 888: Yeah, I agree.

Hank Stoever: Yeah. I mean it's it like we all agree. We could use more organization, collaboration outreach and everything. so that we can solve right now, I think we need places where we can talk with the community, I think discord is a good place for that then places where we can talk more individually because they're just some conversations that are easier to have a sync, privately with stakeholders so it's Where do we share updates publicly? How can we be more accountable on that? That I do think the working group sort of accountability, just like just the model could work well, but Malicious, I don't know, talk, I think and I think just try and talk more and I think other than this chat and we'll make progress on that front.

Larry Salibra: And I have to either run really soon. I have a hard stop but I'm gonna be in London next week. I think Mark said he's going to be in London and for the bitcoin unleashed event Snazzy's gonna be there. But to love to get together with everybody and have a drink maybe dedicated find 30 minutes. Or not or just to talk about the stuff. If we can't find a dedicated time we can, At least, just Asynchronously chat in person. Thanks to the link, Don.

Hank Stoever: I'm jealous. You guys have fun. yeah.

Snazzy 888: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: You're not gonna be there Hank.

Hank Stoever: Unfortunately, yeah.

Larry Salibra: It's far, understand. I'm here on your avoiding waiting for this conference.

Hank Stoever: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: I wish it was earlier, so I could just go home.

Snazzy 888: Yeah, looking forward to. Yeah, I'll see you there. Larry.

Larry Salibra: Encrypted great. Look forward to then see some of you next week and hopefully we can have one. I guess, I'll take a stab at the template for the working group. I'll post that on the forum. just a draft of it and then we can because I don't know. how the process works and github. I want to Put it there and then people think that I'm proposing it, like we can put it on forum and decide, if that makes sense. And then once we all happy with that, then posted you

Hank Stoever: Thank you. Let me know how I can help.

Larry Salibra: Okay, cool. Thanks.

Mark Hendrickson: I'm sorry.

Gina Abrams: Thank you..

Snazzy 888: Great. Just

Meeting ended after 00:25:08 👋
