# **BNS Working Group public meeting (2023-10-26 22:34 GMT+8) - Transcript**

## **Video**

https://youtu.be/yo1Or8w6x4M

## **Attendees**

3 id, Hank Stoever, Hero Gamer, Larry Salibra, Mark Hendrickson, Snazzy 888

## **Transcript**

_This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created._

Larry Salibra: Recording is starting.

Larry Salibra: Just a recap for people watching if some of us are just back from Bitcoin Unleashed in London this past weekend. I Of the five people here four of us got to meet up in person. So that was really great. Snazzy had a panel discussion on BNS, which I heard really well.

Larry Salibra: Leather had lots of fun. Activities applying paper airplanes stuff like that.

Larry Salibra: so one of the I thought today we would absolutely left last two weeks ago. We said that I would make a sort of a ticket a stab at running a proposal to create a working group focus on upgrading the BNS Stacks contract and I've done that and I will momentarily share a link. I've sent it down just to snazzy everybody else for a link in the chat. and so I thought we could talk about that we could talk about the sort of the issues that we discussed in I think I mean most importantly update Hank and to see what he thinks. as well to How does that sound?

Larry Salibra: This is actual work.

Snazzy 888: You yeah.

Larry Salibra: okay, let me just share the link and…

Snazzy 888: No.

Larry Salibra: maybe snazzy you when we start talking about what we discussed at the conference takeaways and then We can go to this afterwards.

Snazzy 888: mmm Yeah.

Larry Salibra: Do you want to start Okay, awesome.

Snazzy 888: Yeah, of course. Yeah, so in essence, we kind of discussed in length how and this was sort of following on from the last working group call that we had regarding. Communication and coordination and just being more organized and I guess being more of a sort of a collective group, rather than sort of individuals doing their own thing and then kind of coming together and discussing what we've done. just being a little bit more coordinated a little bit more organized.

Snazzy 888: yeah, just ensuring that we move the needle forward to BNS. So I think from the previous discussion in the last working group group call and obviously at the event. I think some of the most important things for us are that we need to have kind of Milestones or goals or objectives that we need to sort of work towards basically. I don't and that's something that we've kind of not had and again this is all Due to sort of working fairly independently if you like and then sort of coming together on these calls to discuss, I've done this or I've done that. But yeah, I think it would be good for us to have.

Snazzy 888: dedicated group chat. I mean, I personally think probably Discord kind of fulfills a lot of the needs that we have. I know console was suggested in the last working group and I've kind of had a look at console. I'm not sold yet on Console because it's not quite as feature-rich. Let's say as Discord. but yeah, so that's the starting place for us, and that's where we can get together and we can discuss them. We can update each other as to the conversations that we have that we've had the things that we're doing. If we want to use some sort of project management tools, then that might help as well, There' I mentioned in the last working group called there's this skiff decentralized.

Snazzy 888: Project management tool that will as introduced me to will.btc.

Snazzy 888: So yes, I don't know what other ideas everyone has. But I think now especially after Bitcoin and Leash now is the time that right. We need to sort of not cool down and make sure that we're coordinated and organized and continually sort of holding people holding each other sort of to accounts to a degree or having a degree of accountability, and just ensuring that we're all on track and that we're not overlapping too much and things of that nature

Mark Hendrickson: But I talked about schools before especially chat, I think.

Snazzy 888: Yeah.

00:05:00

Mark Hendrickson: This is a chat. Do we have a board somewhere project board on GitHub that you just keep track of initiatives essentially the categorize them by Electric project or it's like having a global async area to go just see where things are at and contribute between these means as well as structured length of the helpful.

Larry Salibra: And we have a GitHub but I think I don't know who's in Gina's on it. Ive I'm just posting meeting updates. There is a initiatives repo. I'm not set on this we can use whatever we want. I don't really care about the tools. I think though it's a higher level and other thing we talked about was the important things for the ecosystem and I think one top thing was to serve the conflict of the continuing conflict between l1l2 and the second thing was the Nakamoto release and I think the third thing would probably be Partnerships like visibility marketing all this sort of stuff like you give a good example of that

Larry Salibra: so one of the things that the BNS Council has been asking for is the ability to send Bitcoin to names. and it turned like and so can actually kind of experts approached me a year ago, maybe early this year to do this and I wrote a spec program wrote a blog post publishes back and then Didn't really keep track of what happened to it. And then it turns out that Mark here at leather actually implemented it and shipped it. So we already had this functionality. But I don't think the BNS Council knew it and then experts who originally asked for this functionality didn't do it. so there's a whole bunch of wow, we all sort of Like I mean everybody except for Mark drop the ball.

Larry Salibra: Mark actually scored a goal but didn't tell anybody he told everybody but I don't know. It's just disappeared into the algorithm. So that seems like that. Yeah.

Snazzy 888: Yeah, rry. that was the thing that you'd sort of coded on GitHub with regards to the

Snazzy 888: it had some things to do with a signing an address didn't it to whatever Was within a wallet or something outside what something along those lines wasn't it was an sort of a signing an automatic address like an old, Bitcoin address and that being sort of a single standard that everyone uses because as far as I understand experts use a different type of Bitcoin address only to till whether

Larry Salibra: I think and it's a little bit of a side discussion but basically very quickly you can link a name. It doesn't have could be any BNS name with an arbitant address for any chain Bitcoin ethereum, whatever. I'm sorry. I just made a stock based on already existing DNS standards, used across the internet to connect the two searches basically create a convention. if you put this record in like that if you put the name and this record, then we'll look there for the address, but the question is, sorry guys. I'm a bit sick actually after the conference some sort of covering the

Larry Salibra: The question was the issue is that linking names at least on BNS requires you to up doing update transaction and somebody to make a bunch of tools to do that. And so my thinking would be nice if there was just a default address. so in terms of sending this spec actually also is for sending to Stacks as well too. So you can send this to Hanks now here that's really freaky. it works for Stacks. It works for if you use the spec with ethereum Mode work with ethereum as well to and so with Stacks you get a default address, which is the account that owns the name and you can calculate a Bitcoin address.

Larry Salibra: From that and so my thinking was like since users are lazy and they're not going to do this. we might It's default goes to this address, but as Mark has so kindly told me that you can only calculate Legacy addresses which nobody wants to use anymore because they're so long story short it requires. It's not ideal you need to actually basically connect your wallet to a Bitcoin address to get it functionality which no Walt has built in But does it help answer your question?

Snazzy 888: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah,…

Larry Salibra: Mark Hank has left the meeting.

Snazzy 888: that was our Dream right there too.

Hank Stoever: and just

Snazzy 888: Hanks it home but unfortunately, yes. It's to know yeah. No, that's pretty much kind of You've explained. Yeah. what I was attempting to explain but explaining So yeah in short that will not work that solution won't work then for experts. Larry

00:10:00

Mark Hendrickson: actually

Larry Salibra: Will work. they just need to have a connect and actually choose your Bitcoin wallet that you want. They could do it automatically, they could even just be like would you like to link your wallet yes or no and then just they can even subsidize the transactions doesn't cost the user and money. I mean leather can do the same thing.

Hank Stoever: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: They could make you a lot easier just a question of development resources and also a question of does that functionality belong in a wallet or does it belong in some name management software somewhere else? it's really a question for the two product teams. how much do they want their products to do?

Hank Stoever: And on dots you can do this pretty easily. It's not like a BNS X thing. In fact, it doesn't even work with bnsx. It's just for his own file updater tool and say you can go in put your Bitcoin address. better being minimum and now works with what leather, implemented your standard.

Larry Salibra: So dot supports this too and we didn't. nobody knew this there's a Communications that she or…

Hank Stoever: It was in the announcement that you simply ignored.

Snazzy 888: Yeah. This is…

Larry Salibra: some sort.

Snazzy 888: what I've been saying all along guys.

Mark Hendrickson: It's way to get 102,000 views.

Larry Salibra: Yeah.

Mark Hendrickson: No one thought.

Larry Salibra: It wasn't that same Twitter tweet thread.

Mark Hendrickson: I think I mentioned dots. Yeah, that was that.

Hank Stoever: Yeah. Yeah.

Larry Salibra: Because I literally just read the threat this weekend what he said to me. He also missed it again.

Larry Salibra: Maybe I have reading comprehension issues.

Mark Hendrickson: I do think that the different ways to make yourself a sort of usability problem. And we do have one this tweet thread that we put out in March. This is the best instruction on how you actually bind addressed your name, but we don't in leather yet provided me indication of that which is just a huge gap. And so I think at the very least having something in the UI we say hey do you basically want to receive Bitcoin to your account via your BNS name? Go here. You have to link to dots or anywhere else. That would be huge step from where we're at currently that's by what I recommend is stuff first thing we do and then we can also bake things in to the wallet so that you could just find it from the wallet, but I think I do have a bit of like this.

Mark Hendrickson: This sort of feeling that the more we try to take into the wallet for BNS management type stuff the ones we have pension of how much of that actually should live in its own app, which is the users in the context of BNS management in general, but we discuss that sort of I guess attention. And then there's also a question. I was with Chris of console the other day about this actually.

Larry Salibra: Is that Chris behind you in the screen? okay.

Mark Hendrickson: No, he's not here working place, but he is here in Barcelona.

Larry Salibra: Okay.

Mark Hendrickson: So we were talking about how when you register a name like you see that or whatever. That could also be a moment. I wish you do this, right because the registration app connected to a wall it could say hey, I see awesome Bitcoin address that you've already connected to this registration app. would you like to buy in your newly registered name? That actually might be the best moment to do it because if they registered what they would leather or ex first and then later we say look at them Divine to a Bitcoin address. you've separated at the moment which it makes the most sense, which is when you first got the name, so this could actually just get the registers sort of side as a future.

Snazzy 888: Yeah, this is the thing.

Larry Salibra: Yeah, I did. I have a fork of because at us I think I added that in as well too. when you register the name like it asks you to register to add in a Bitcoin address and a nostril name. So not sure that way you can do it when you're paying the first time instead of having to pay to do it again later. so

Snazzy 888: And yeah is removing as many barriers as possible for users,…

Larry Salibra: Okay.

Snazzy 888: because obviously at the moment. if you want to add a Bitcoin address to your name specifically you have to go to BTC dot us, don't you? and it's just for yourself Mark with leather and also obviously with experts it's just removing as many barriers as possible for BNS at the BNS community and for the BNS users so they don't have to go through all those additional steps in order to add their Bitcoin address or the right Bitcoin address. Let's say

00:15:00

Snazzy 888: so I think that the community is probably quite a big priority and this is all and this is also where the whole kind of to a degree where the being on the L1 stems from, it is that direct connection to bitcoin and the fact that L1 names are directly connected to a Bitcoin address. instantly, they don't. Yeah.

Larry Salibra: because of that I don't know if you are into any wallets like Work where they can control the coin so well that you can mix ordinals and money.

Mark Hendrickson: We're sort of getting there. I think I've been good back to February March. We definitely kept things very separate like Tap Root for ordinals and natives like what in our case for Bitcoin? But then users and it inevitably are going to end up depositing the wrong thing in the wrong address of the wall Twitter time. We've actually tried to filled out the support for either on both. And so these days for example, you could have ordinals on the native segment address in whether and if you get Bitcoin is the temporary dress we help you retrieve it to the NATO segment, but the next step we want to do is actually add the non-ordinal Bitcoin you have in Taproot also to your regular Bitcoin balance and allow you to send it safely. So I think where the puck is going here is that I think it's gonna be agnostic as far as what kind of address things are on so it's true Larry the

Mark Hendrickson: Currently that's the case with L1 domains like it. It'd be tricky if you send Bitcoin to it, but I'll give you fast forward 6 to 12 months that might not be the case in general with walls. I mean, I don't know if other walls are gonna do the same thing, but at least all other side, that's our

Snazzy 888: Yeah, that makes sense.

Larry Salibra: So you to seem to be online and basically have to scan a bunch of indexes to What's in your wallet before you can? Yeah.

Mark Hendrickson: Last thing is You rely on API to tell you what and if the apis messes up. There is a problem. So we do still recommend people.

Larry Salibra: if you send it before you scanned.

Mark Hendrickson: If you do what he's got send.

Larry Salibra: Sit, I don't know say the append messes up right and it doesn't show something there,…

Mark Hendrickson: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: but maybe the API is reindexing or something, right? And then you and…

Mark Hendrickson: yeah.

Larry Salibra: you send it and you're like, that index was not to date. Oops. It's gone.

Mark Hendrickson: Yeah, I mean we just still recommend people.

Larry Salibra: There's a bunch of timing issues.

Mark Hendrickson: Yeah Rubble to recommend what deposit or knows and Tap Root for that. Edge case possibility but I don't think It's very sustainable to have people partition based on addresses because there's so many ways to go with so many ways in which it goes wrong like normal sort of terms.

Snazzy 888: Okay. Yeah.

Snazzy 888: They L2 to L1 solution Hank is that pretty much sort of finalized now is…

Hank Stoever: he yeah,…

Snazzy 888: what additional tasks need to be done to fully complete. launch

Hank Stoever: have Good news. Yeah, the first name was bridged this morning far away is basically so I'd say it's in a beta State. I don't want to say Hey, everyone go you put your best name through this thing, whatever there's So number one. Yeah, please go check it out. I had this I did some documentation and then on dots, there's kind of the app flow for it.

Hank Stoever: then basically just need better collection support. So, Gamer's been supportive. But they obviously need to kind of like these inscriptions to exist before sort of starting that collection and then similarly I think if we're gonna make a splash about this then I think it'd be great to have some early adopters. So it's sort of not kind of going from a blank slate if someone's going to check it out. So anyways

00:20:00

Hank Stoever: Yeah, it's live, but I don't want to make a kind of noise about it yet and sort of rather, Yeah, not just you guys but BNS kind of like chord users who are most invested to try it out. And yeah.

Snazzy 888: That sounds Really cool. Yeah, I mean in terms of speaking to the ordinals marketplaces. I'm trying to currently get sort of back into it with unisapp. I was in contact with him in this during the summer and then a few months has passed and I need to sort of touch base with I believe that one of the founders.

Snazzy 888: And I think Nat has been in touch with magic Eden as well.

Hank Stoever: Yeah.

Snazzy 888: So we potentially got two ordinals marketplaces there that are Hopefully going to be sort of happy to sort of launch this on there. And so that's the start I think and…

Hank Stoever: Yeah.

Snazzy 888: then obviously the next big one would be. Ordinals wallet I believe.

Hank Stoever: Not She forwarded a message from Gina said basically asking for API endpoints. So I sent that her way and…

Snazzy 888: will get

Hank Stoever: that's all on the docs that I liked.

Snazzy 888: Really? Okay, so they're that kind of pretty much. Ready to go then unisa. in that sense

Hank Stoever: I'm not sure I mean That's as far as I know is that the message you've ordered said, it seemed like they support it for resolution and querying that's what they said.

Snazzy 888: Okay. Really?

Snazzy 888: Yes, so bnsv2. is the contracts for that kind of pretty much finalized Hank,…

Hank Stoever: just

Snazzy 888: is it pretty much finished or does it need to be kind of tweaked here and there and so how far away?

Hank Stoever: No, I mean there's practically no contract work on V2. It's very much like

Hank Stoever: I mean, I've been trying to get more consensus, around what it exactly should be before really diving in. I think there's a lot of things we agree on but Yeah, I mean, I think that's something that I would love help on is getting to consensus there where sort of figuring out. how do we move forward? I think there's a lot of kind of different approaches and I think it also really requires some Community kind of like Outreach and someone is sort of I don't know. Work on that. I think there's the aspect of a sip as well, which I think we basically, pretty much all agreed on that sort of sip would be, a good kind of give some more. I don't know weight behind this change.

Snazzy 888: And What would that involve? What is this hip? that's like sorry not nonsense non-technical person that

Hank Stoever:

Hank Stoever: Yeah. it's a non-technical thing. It's just a document if you want slash sips on GitHub. it's a Stacks Improvement proposal. So …

Snazzy 888: there we go. Okay.

Hank Stoever: it's just like saying hey, we're gonna do this for any previous Stacks changes. They've said here's exactly what it is. There's some sort of voting mechanism and it's just like a way of making Community lead changes

Snazzy 888: Right, I see okay. Okay.

Larry Salibra: Snazzy you're killing hero.

Hero Gamer: It's like designs think of it as a design specification.

Hank Stoever: student loans

Hero Gamer: It's just tells you …

Snazzy 888: Yeah.

Hero Gamer: what you're going to do and then separately from that all the codes lives in a different place. But essentially is a design specification think of it like a architecture diagram and that's what you're going to do. And then you have the actual building that's been built physically, but this is architecture that diagram basically, that's it.

Snazzy 888: I see. Okay. Sorry. I'm from the business development world.

Larry Salibra: Yeah, it's inspired from bits Bitcoin Improvement protocol which are our performance process that doesn't really matter what it means which is also inspired from rfcs which are like the internet engineering task force requests for comments, which are very similar documents written since the early 80s that say this is what IP is like this is how HTTP should work like that sort of thing. So there's a long history of these internet engineering.

00:25:00

Snazzy 888: Okay.

Snazzy 888: what would you say the main things that we need to reach consensus on with regards to the B2 upgrade?

Hank Stoever: Let's see. I mean, we only have a minute left. I

Hank Stoever: I'd say let's Circle back async. I mean, this is a good sort of impetus to make sure that we're Communicating outside of these meetings. Yeah, I just …

Snazzy 888: Okay.

Hank Stoever: I kind of got in my head but I'd rather just sort of be more specific.

Snazzy 888: Yeah, I think I mean obviously the multiple names to an address is probably one of the biggest if not the biggest.

Snazzy 888: and obviously we have any one or two individuals that I think disagree with that, compared to right

Larry Salibra: I'm just to jump engines were running late the link that I sent so we didn't get to talk about this. but we'd like to I mean, I think it would make sense to put this into a more formal working group. so we can get more visibility like I would propose at least to start we make just working group. It's solely focused on a BNS L2 Stacks contract upgrade that's timed for the Nakamoto release just because the docker motor release has some bugs into be fixed. so I made you can check out the Forum post. I filled in some of the parts. we talked a lot with snazzy and I talk

Larry Salibra: To make sure we're gonna email started with him as well too about this and he's very supportive. there's a list of deliverables and timelines. I think one of the things we can add to deliverables is Community feedback and figure out what that is and then maybe it's a survey maybe it's someone talks to each one of the exchanges. I don't know what the parts are. But Maybe if we can get some progress on that and then we need someone to lead that and I don't know maybe snazzy wants to sort of drive that and harass people and make sure that we're doing what we need to do.

Snazzy 888: Yeah. Yeah,…

Larry Salibra: Somebody wants to do that and…

Snazzy 888: I love thoracity.

Larry Salibra: then we probably pull in.

Larry Salibra: Yeah, you do it in a very positive way. so people don't feel like they're being harassed. That's awesome. But yeah, I think that would be a really good way to start getting some positive movements on the upgrade. That way we have a list of things we're going to do and we can do them and we have Mitchell watching over us to make sure we do it.

Snazzy 888: Yeah. Yeah, sounds good. Yeah, so in essence, yeah, we need the community to be involved in. some of these key decisions with regards to the BNS V2 upgrade. but yeah in terms of I'm sure it's probably hard to put an ETL on this but in terms of ETA Hank. Do you think probably by the end of the year we could potentially? upgrade the contract

Hank Stoever: I think by the end of the year we could have something on testnet, but just given the complexity around testing. the actual kind of community oriented things. I think unlikely, but certainly I think before now Komodo which is slated for hopefully April and I think certainly, before that.

Snazzy 888: Okay.

Larry Salibra: so one of the things we talked about was that would be great to make BNS 2.0 contract not necessarily part of Nakamoto, but it could be part of that announcement and spdc and BNS 2.0 sort of like that sort of timing. So if we work backwards from there and try to be ready. and advance Maybe that's a strategy.

Snazzy 888: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I will get a group sorted so ya because as I say, we just need to be far more coordinated and have better communication as to what everyone What everyone's working on where everyone is with regards to conversations and things. But yeah. bro

00:30:00

Larry Salibra: Okay, sounds good. Thank you everybody.

Snazzy 888: Great. Good chaps.

Hank Stoever: Great to see Talk later.

Larry Salibra: Bye-bye.

Meeting ended after 00:30:29 👋
