# **BNS Working Group public meeting (2023-07-06 22:32 GMT+8) - Transcript**

## **Video**

https://youtu.be/I5r2eQwdFOw

## **Attendees**

Deloon M, Don Ruiz, Gina Abrams, Hank Stoever, Jeff Domke, Larry Salibra, Mark Hendrickson, Ragnar Lifthrasir

## **Transcript**

_This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created._

Larry Salibra: Okay, recording has started. Welcome everybody. I think.

Larry Salibra: so last week I think no one here was here. Except for maybe Gina briefly and I don't know if you able to check out the video. It was basically end up being a conversation or even two weeks ago in me and a number of members of the Bns Dow Council. And so they communicated their desire for sort of a group that works in this whole time funding and sort of basically it was discussion around this. And then since then there's been some calls outside of this about creating an organization. I think custom machine has been taking the lead in that.

Larry Salibra: perhaps, so that's one thing that's gonna be able. I was not table is Hank, was working on an app to collect feedback from the community with regard to which being Bns 2.0. And I think, a third thing is a discussion of making Bns interoperable, layer one, and a way that makes sense for the market. So I suggest we discuss one of those three things.

Larry Salibra: Hello.

Hank Stoever: Hey, yeah. Let's see.

Hank Stoever: Yeah, I don't have much, the first line item it'd be information gathering for me. So I'm interested to hear that. And then the other two, it's probably something I could care about. So I'm good with any. Yeah, I guess I would like to hear, if there's any interesting updates on the organization front.

Larry Salibra: Show me. I don't have any that does. I don't know Gina or Jeff have anything or Ragnar.

Gina Abrams: I don't have any parents right now.

Larry Salibra: Sorry to put in the spot.

Gina Abrams: So, yeah, I'd rather, we talk about this other future call when I've discussed internally a little bit more, if that's okay.

Larry Salibra: Sounds good.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, for the organization. I don't know anything about that. I'd like more information too and whenever whoever's working on, that has something Yeah.

Larry Salibra: So we'll check that off our list and move on to the next thing. Hank. Did you want to share about the other things?

Hank Stoever: Yeah, so on the third topic you kind of framed it as better L1 compatibility in some way and there have been some discussions about different ways to do that. And the one that's sort of caught my eye and I've been, sort of exploring is a mechanism to be able to bridge Bns On to L1 as an inscription and then be able to move it, trade it use it, whatever and also be able to bridge back to the stacks L2 layer. And I can go into some of the details about how it works. Hopefully that high level description, mix some sense. I think what I'm most interested in getting feedback on is how

Hank Stoever: Interesting. Is this from different people, sort of like the value that it provides. And then, secondly, it's, assuming I'd be doing a lot of engineering on it, it would necessarily conflict with this upgrade work. And so, I'm in a little bit of a, I guess dilemma is one way to put it at the moment where I think both are potentially quite important but there's necessarily some prioritization required otherwise both projects or one. Can go through more quickly but the other one more slowly still. Yeah, I'm just kind of curious to hear feedback. What people think? Yeah.

Gina Abrams: Is there a? sort of dock that you are referring to, in terms of the L1 upgrades, or is it more at the just high level conceptual?

Hank Stoever: I've got a notion Doc I can share with you, but I'm putting on posting it on the forum today with basically here's how it works. And Yeah, a call for feedback is this valuable should be prioritized.

00:05:00

Gina Abrams: Awesome.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, I sorry. Go ahead Gina

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah. No. I strongly support this and I've been talking to Hank and Jeff about it to me, it's an absolute brainer to have stacks have names on L1. In fact, I feel like we're two months behind so I'm so glad that Hank is

Ragnar Lifthrasir: been working on this and doing a lot of the heavy lifting. And I hope that traging, we can try to contribute something to the effort with our engineering. Anything I can do in terms of explaining it to people, talking about it, integrating it into trade, in which we definitely could do take work, but we can do it in to make sense. So we have the support from page and to do that. So some of the benefits is obviously expands the use of Bns. you can do more with Bns for aid. Inscriptions of your Bns name. You can keep You can sell it, you can do whatever you want with it. Another benefit to Bns is that it hopefully will kind of immediately. You're right, the issues of having these ordinal, that Bitcoin is open source and people can do whatever you want. But, I mean, not Btc has been around for a long time at the infrastructure, so it's Frust.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Going to see the thought btc names, pop up, and I think having a true well-engineered well-designed well supported Dot. Btc name ordi Inscriptions coming from Bns derived from Bns would be really help that effort and the third benefit. I would say to Bns and stocks in general is that I think it can bring a lot of bitcoin ordinal people to stocks, who maybe aren't familiar with STOCKINESS at all or a little bit when they see, Hey, what are these Dot Btc names inscriptions? They come from Bns. I think it could bring more people and just do that. And finally, from I'm not an engineer. But my understanding is that it technically doesn't need any changes to kind of the current Bns contract that everyone uses. I'm sure if the contract was updated and updated maybe it would make things better.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: That's probably a Hank question or other people's question so I can go on and on. but my point is that I think it has a lot of benefit to Bns. I think there'll be a huge demand from both Bns people and eventually Bitcoin Ordinals people and happy to contribute to that efforts wherever I can. And from Trajan

Hank Stoever: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: That sounds great Ragnar. Thanks for that.

Hank Stoever: A different note on that. So there's the question of sort of prioritization. Should one come before the other? Both, I think have a good argument for how they provide value but resources have to go one way or another.

Hank Stoever: A part of that is even assuming that the community would really like this sort of L1 and bridge to be built first. It is most likely that Doing an upgrade later will a complicate this L1 project because, we'd certainly want to build it in a sort of way that could be compatible with the future version but there may be some improvements in an upgrade that would actually make this project easier so it's kind of a different complicating factor.

Hank Stoever: Mark, just to get you up, we're talking about And I'm going to share form post later with details, but basically a mechanism to bridge Bns name onto L1 as an inscription be able to use it trade, it transfer it and then also bridge back to stacks and kind of get the Bns in.

Jeff Domke: Hey, Hank. I think just Fork in the road is pretty common so we've been here many times where it's market demand says that we should kind of take a shortcut but you're doing it right? And doing it in a more, I don't know robust extensible, way, sort of means going slower and rebuilding some of the foundational layers of four proceeding So that just happens all the time. Give us that. what's your sense of what the right call this to make their trade-off wise?

00:10:00

Hank Stoever: I think if it was clear that there's great demand for this project, this feature, whatever you want to call it,

Hank Stoever: I would feel confident that the right call is to do this L1 bridge, especially if we can get adoption in a couple, different marketplaces is kind of like the official got BTC. Yeah, I would say it's worth it but if adoption's gonna be minimal and marketplace adoptions minimal then not worth it. So that's really what I'm trying to gauge and hopefully the foreign post and just kind of like Sharing it, broadly can help there and talking to partners as well.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, it's a test to market test that I think Hank's foreign posts will be helpful. I'll share that and add my two cents to it. So we can test the waters. I think will give us good feedback. Just looking at numbers of the dot SAS name. I haven't looked in a while. Does anyone know the latest? I think it's over 200,000 unique names. In terms of Bns names. Is it about the same? I haven't been following the numbers lately. but I think looking at those numbers is some indication that there's I think a strong demand

Ragnar Lifthrasir: But I think the Forum post is a good place to start. I tweeted something about it, To lose some bns slightly about 300k. He thinks So those are some pretty significant numbers. and I tweeted something about it related to it today. Yeah. And then in terms of engineering health, the bottleneck is Hank is one person. If he could clone himself this could go faster but in terms of trying to get some help on the engineering side, perhaps our CTO at courage and might be able to help, obviously, everyone's busy and we are. And then if there's anyone else that any other organization that could help, I think That seems to be a hard point is the engineering help. So if there's else any other teams that we know of that could chip in I think that would be able to move it along. If that's bottleneck.

Hank Stoever: You can also put out a call for, I don't know. Would you call it help? Basically. A different way to put it is, you could get actually help on this project but also actually help on the upgrade project. So, some potentially be able to pick up the torch on the voting. App. I think there is a grant out for a more generic Stacks Voting App. I don't know the status on that, but Yeah, that could be a different pretty beneficial approach.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: And I've talked to Will about maybe building something with Traging for kind of voting, so I got a circle back with him and see what we need to do. If there's something existing, we can apply to but that can help as well. But I think so what we'll see, what people say to Hank's foreign post.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: but I think we can just start minting names once a standard is That makes sense. I think that ultimately you don't know until it's done kind of thing and we can just make our best guess.

Hank Stoever: Deluna negative is listening, but be curious if you can, just comment, kind of your reaction and certainly hope to get your feedback on these other channels, too.

Hank Stoever: And others, just kind of, got reaction obviously. You'll have to see the details.

Larry Salibra: I mean, if you want to jump in, just cut me off on. I would just say that. perhaps just you could present it as the level there. One left. L2 Bridge is really an upgrade right or upgrade upgrading Bns or dot BDC to work with both. so I understand why you're presenting it as an upgrade versus, L1 Bridge. but that's more of a technical. I don't think you just care about that. I think it's like, you could have an upgrade roadmap and I won't support is one thing on the roadmap.

00:15:00

Hank Stoever: Mmm.

Larry Salibra: Whether that needs to come before after a multiple names for address don't think that that's a different issue. That's not but I think we're really doing is instead of L1 Bridge is really upgrading Bns. So work with both L1 and L2. if that makes sense. my God is I think that that's probably the most important thing to do. I mean I've been a little bit distracted last month and a half. so I'm not exactly sure. We're like the L1 names are but just from what I was seeing before it just seems socially Outline 1 is L1, that's like how long was there first and…

Hank Stoever: Yep.

Larry Salibra: people want, given all things, the equal you'd rather have something at L1l2 unless you have some benefit for having it melts you

Hank Stoever: Makes sense.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: And not to change topics. But there's also the reverse of taking Dotsat's name and in a responsible technically sound way, bringing those on to Bns and users can choose to have their Dot sets name on either, that might be a different discussion but I've been discussing it with a couple people I did secure. The dot sets Bns namespace. So that might be a different discussion but it could be the same thing where we talked about, big picture.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Cool Area. Yeah. Hey big picture. We now had This tool that allows you to go from L2 to L1 Dot SAS dot btc. And maybe that's another possible approach to consider to present to people even though they're two separate things, but they're kind of related because it's a bridge, ultimately. And if we show it as being able to go both ways and bringing in interest to dust ask people to Bns and people who are Indian as interested in Dot SATs, or, just thought or know any ordinal name that might be the other thing.

Hank Stoever: Yeah, I like what Larry said about kind of presenting it as almost a roadmap. There's these L1 integrations, there's these, poor contract changes, there's the stats thing. So, I do really like that and it just kind of, presents a nice clear picture for where Bns is going then kind of track long and see the future value.

Larry Salibra: The reason I was saying that, I think it's about markup positioning and what the product is just like the Bitcoin name system. And so saying we have this L2 thing. We're trying to bridge it to L1 that sort of sounds like we're trying to shoehorn our way into L1 but no this is the bitcoin name system. It started on bitcoin, right? It was on L1 it, moved on to L2 for functionality and we're just increasing the functionality, bitcoin names system so that it works all across Bitcoin like a one L two, maybe it works on rootstock or maybe works on something else. That's the way I would position it. and not try to be like,…

Hank Stoever: Yep.

Larry Salibra: Hey we're L2. But we're trying to also make it. We're kind of one which I think is sort of like a losing proposition. So it's sort of fighting from a weak position.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, so Larry I agree with you. It's sort of taking a more holistic, big picture. Bitcoin approach Let's start with Bitcoin. And see how the layers work together. And I like what you said, this is the bitcoin naming system. And so if we can say, Hey, there's L1 to L2 and L2 to L1, that truly sounds like a comprehensive bitcoin naming system. Depending on which layer you want for. What reasons do you want programmability? Do you want simplicity? Do you want liquidity? there's pros and Constable. So I think presenting it maybe both has good advantages that Larry described

Hank Stoever: So guys, I said I'll make that forum post today with all the details. Also kind of like The thought patterns the pros and cons, and I think, mainly at, love to get feedback from all of you. And then I'll also help just kind of making sure it gets as many eyeballs as possible. Help kind of validate this

00:20:00

Hank Stoever: And determine if there's other approaches, Because I think there's pretty strong agreement on stronger L1 Usage compatibility, Whatever. But is this the right approach?

Larry Salibra: Okay, that's great. that sounds like that's our next step. For the cold action Art is to read the post on it and then hopefully we can reconvene here in two more weeks. And the other action item is Hopefully we can have more information on a formation of organization trying to move this project forward and two more weeks.

Hank Stoever: Cool. I like it.

Larry Salibra: Anybody like to cover? If not, We can sort of call today.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: If anyone is interested in the ordinal names to adopt sets on Bns, send me a message, I'm working on two people with it but always appreciate feedback and other ideas and insights as well.

Larry Salibra: Should have you written something? I haven't actually checked the forum a little bit of time to be written, something about that and maybe we can just point. Maybe, there's people that aren't this called would be interested in helping in that endeavor and…

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Yeah, I …

Larry Salibra: if so, we can share,

Ragnar Lifthrasir: yeah, I've written something.

Larry Salibra: No.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: It's not ready for publication, but I can and then I'm working on it with one or two other people and I can see if they're comfortable with sharing it as well. And then, put it out there, it doesn't have all the technical details but I think if it's sufficient then we can just put it out there and I don't know if they should also follow Hank's Forum post as well. But maybe I'll message Hank and just see when he finishes it up whatever because building in the open being open with things is, kind of an ethos, sometimes you have to do the work behind the scenes first, but I believe the sooner that he can be out in the open the better in general.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Unless there's an exception. answer your question. Yes. Larry, I have worked on it. It's not finished, but I can go back to and try to polish it off. And then share it.

Larry Salibra: Okay, so this will be posted as on YouTube for other people are not here, and if you are watching this later, please go and check out these forum posts, which should be up by the time you see the video. Thank you, everybody. Let's reconvene in two weeks and hopefully we'll have some progress on both of these issues.

Ragnar Lifthrasir: Thanks Larry.

Hank Stoever: Thanks everyone.

Gina Abrams: Thank you.

Larry Salibra: Thanks.

Jeff Domke: Thanks.

Meeting ended after 00:23:12
