# **BNS Working Group public meeting (2023-06-08 22:37 GMT+8) - Transcript**

## **Video**

https://youtu.be/pYC2uIorHxw

## **Attendees**

3 id, Cordy Joseph, Deloon M, Don Ruiz, Gina Abrams, Hank Stoever, Jeff Domke, Larry Salibra, Tommy Butcher

## **Transcript**

_This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created._

Hank Stoever: Could be normalizing everything to five years, you know. And then the same thing on pricing and so it's like, What do you do for new registrations? What do you do for existing registrations? You know how exactly does that go about and then and then we can sort of, you know, figure out. Whether or if we move forward with that,

3 id: Yeah, I'm happy to put sort of a template together into stickler on the Forum.

Hank Stoever: Okay. Great.

Tommy Butcher: Hmm. Yeah I would almost think that Changing people's. registration time would be more contentious than adding multiple. addresses to or multiple users domains to an address. But I don't know.

Tommy Butcher: So, I guess my question though is kind of back to the the original statement. I'm I'm fine with an off chain. I think an off-chain voting system is a great idea. but,

Tommy Butcher: Will. Will the developers? Honor the results. or the wishes of the community because I've just heard the word never so many times. That to me, never means. Never, you know, I don't care what other people think, never, you know. Maybe it's just poorly worded. Um but that would be my question is what what happens when we take this vote? And, and if the community is like, Yeah, we kind of like Want to be where the rest of the industry is and, you know, things like that.

Tommy Butcher: What's the pushback that?

Larry Salibra: Can you give some context to the never comments? I'm not 100% familiar with Who you're talking about or what's context, is imagine guests that I would be useful for the record.

Tommy Butcher: So yeah, so if you go to the thread where we're talking about this during the upgrade there's quite a few times where it's it's mentioned by a developer to that this is never going to happen. We will never accept multiple domains on an address. and, and so,

Tommy Butcher: Like I said, again, I think it's a great idea to vote. I think it's a great idea to get where the communities, you know, to get the community's feel. But if the developers won't agree, To do what the community wants. What's the point?

Tommy Butcher: Does that make sense?

Larry Salibra: Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense. Um, here's what I would, I think that there are a couple things around here. I think that there's they're like, I think it's unclear like what the number of developers are and like, um, and what that even means, I, I can imagine who's, who's saying this on but I think that,…

Tommy Butcher: Yeah.

Larry Salibra: I think that Like so actually just got back from an event. What was an election for organization? And when I went there, like we thought one person was going to win, but once the votes came out, it's not, there was massive support for the other person. So I think that what happens often the situations is like, it's very, it's very unclear. People say things publicly like they say, like Maybe I support a or support B, but in reality, maybe they support see, and that doesn't come out until they, um, until they vote in a way where they maybe there. And so maybe the value of

Larry Salibra: Like doing some sort of off chain, even just like a straw poll would be to like, get an idea and of like what the actual view is because I mean, if you ask me when it comes to, for example, multiple names, I would say there are probably, like, you know, a single digit number of people that are against against them and, like, on a large foremost, people are probably for them or don't have anything. And I think that, I think that actually, some sort of hole would, at least like, give us facts, like a fact, but like, just give us information. We can say, we can feel more confident in that position, and then I get a better picture of what reality is supposed to just be like, oh, that person's very loud or well known. And they're saying x y, or Z with that. Would that helped you think?

Tommy Butcher: Well again and and that's what I'm wanting to know because You know Gamma came in Gina has data gamma presented data, you know, this is what we've actually been told. And so again, I'm all for A a vote.

Hank Stoever: Four.

Tommy Butcher: I'm all for data. I'm all for making decisions based on data.

Tommy Butcher: but again, I just kind of come back to Will the developers Honor the data or honor the results and Yeah, I just I'm trying to leave it vague because I, you know, don't want to especially if somebody's not represented represented. I don't want…

00:05:00

Hank Stoever: He?

Tommy Butcher: you know, kind of throw their name under the bus if they're not here to speak for them. So

Hank Stoever: I can um I can speak to a couple parts of this.

Tommy Butcher: Good.

Hank Stoever: I mean so you know one aspect is like writing the new contract and you know I've volunteered to lead the charge on that and you know if others want to be involved, then that's fantastic. But you know, I think that's kind of where it stands right now. And you know, so I can speak for myself and say I would honor you know what the community wants based on this and I think there's a number of you know items. You know for example that I put in the Forum that seem like you know not that popular that I think are are good ideas. And I'm, you know, fine with personally saying, You know, I'm not going to just put in what I want. I'll put in sort of what the community wants.

Tommy Butcher: Right.

Hank Stoever: um and then and then it comes to the question of how this 2.0 contract is activated and the two broad options being as a new contract with a method for, you know, porting over the entirety of the state on a new address and

Hank Stoever: In that sense, it's really a matter of like getting that new contract adopted. You know, we're not shoving down, anything down, anyone's throat. Like so you could technically build an app that uses Bns 1.0 And you know, if everyone else adapts the 2.0 then you're kind of just in the dark but but at least you know, that's that's an option and so that that looks a lot like, for example, You know, it goes to proved from stake, there's still a proof of work but you know, no one, no one uses it because, you know, sort of like there's this social consensus around around the new one.

Tommy Butcher: Right. Okay.

Hank Stoever: Yeah. And and then, you know, if the stacks hard fork approach, you know, did come through, I think, you know, even even the possibility that requires a little bit more thought and and discussion like even from like a technical perspective, how that would happen, in that case, it's a little more tricky because you kind of do have no choice, um, but it's, you know, sort of points to an argument of why a sort of critical soft fork is Is is better for everyone from at least, a contentious, a contention aspect, maybe some other downsides.

Tommy Butcher: Cool. No, that's fine. That answered my question. Let's see. I think we had a couple other things in here, just Nazi won't be able to make it's a as he was like, Hey, can can we talk about a couple things?

Tommy Butcher: Hey, you've been working, um, regarding the the ud thing and I know we can't go into a whole lot of detail because of You know, Non-disclosures. But do you have everything so far, you need from Wendy.

Hank Stoever: I do, yeah. So far it's really just been you know her asking me lots of questions and made pointing lots of resources to her. I mean,…

Tommy Butcher: Okay.

Hank Stoever: you've seen, you've seen some of the questions that have asked, but yeah, there's no blockers at the moment that I know of

Tommy Butcher: Okay. Yeah. Now we're just literally waiting on trust machines.

Tommy Butcher: Which brought brings up. The. Other thing Snazzy had on here, which was bns, his need for a treasury. instead of, I think what had been discussed and again, I don't know if I was, if this is openly been discussed or this is just side mentioned by instead of burning the sdx, moving it into a treasury where there's a voting apparatus for Actually building and growing bns things, like marketing partnerships. All of that sort of stuff. Maybe I'll Thought, given any thought to that?

Hank Stoever: so,

Tommy Butcher: Or how would that be handled?

Hank Stoever: Correct me if I'm wrong. I don't think there's been any like, public or in this working group discussion on that. For example.

3 id: There's a brief discussion. It was a brief discussion, hanker. I think I listened to the last call that perhaps wasn't the last call, if Larry and Ragnant, but the last big one and it's posted on YouTube. There's a brief discussion around. The complexities it would offer in terms of, would you need yourself up a Dow and or a single entity or whatever?

00:10:00

Hank Stoever: Right, right? And having, I think I'm remembering I was there for that. You know,…

3 id: I don't want to a conclusion.

Hank Stoever: um, yeah.

3 id: I just think it was mentioned.

Hank Stoever: Um The other couple ways to go about that. One thing I'd also mention this is an idea that Jeff had just in a discussion. We had a while back was you know, if this approach went through Essentially, there could be an option where when registering, or paying for renewal you have the choice to either burn the stacks or two, you know, essentially donate them to whatever you know. Thing is, is managing these funds. It's kind of interesting to me. You still have to deal with all the complexity around, Okay? How do we decide which, you know, literal address slash Multistling slash contract, whatever manages the funds. But I think it's kind of an interesting angle to sort of preserve the historic behavior and introduced. You know, an optional new thing I'd really like to hear from others. Also, You know, just high level thoughts, What's your reaction?

Tommy Butcher: I'd actually, you know, I'd be open to that because

Tommy Butcher: You know, again like he said it gives people the option. If they truly want Bns to grow. You know, it's not like you're keeping the, the two stacks, regardless, you know, it's either getting burned or getting donated to be used to grow. The community. So yeah, I mean I'd be open to that.

3 id: I think it's a nice touch because it doesn't look like it is grabbing money. But the reality is anybody that's buying a name is one of the invested in the ecosystem. So you probably see. The decent proportion of stuff flowing. So I think it's very important that we you know, people are We are able to do things marketing, pay devs for time. You know, the more people we can have looking at this. The more functionality, we can build out the better and I think to, he doesn't hurt to have, you know, I think Enos has grants and various things. We might be a while away from there, but that sort of thing, certainly useful for the ecosystem.

Tommy Butcher: yeah, I mean it's possible that had my statement because everybody else isn't in some of these chats, you know, my my statement on this was had this been set up a year ago It's very possible that instead of Knocking on trust machines, doors. Presenting sitting on our hands hoping waiting to hear back from them. We could have just moved forward with this deal and already been working towards getting integrated into hundreds of wallets.

Tommy Butcher: So yeah, if we want to grow, I think we need, we need funds that Regardless of, if it's stacked signs off on it or the council or some, you know, again we've got to come up with processes and stuff for that. But I think the first step would be Trying to get consensus, are people, okay? With a choice? Is it burned or is it donated?

Hank Stoever: I think it's an interesting, thought experiment, this current, you know, partnership thing without mentioning, you know, the amount. You know, it's it's not a small amount and so you know maybe sure if the, you know, Bns council was the soul kind of center, then you could just you know, go forth and do it. But like I wouldn't be surprised if it ended up with a different form of like, you know, kind of red tape slash delay slash contention of, you know, should I go to this should go to that, you know, these things are always messy and sort of down communities. It's still, you know, very, very much might be worth it but it's just sort of, you know, I know a point that make

3 id: I think. Maybe it's the best thing to try and find the path of least resistance for how you could manage a pot of money, and who controls that? That wallet could be changed later on. I guess, you know, if the dog got settled properly or people wanted to do that, I think what we should probably seek out is how we can. implement that change and start using money to do things regardless of who's in control of and I imagine the path of least resistance to that is some sort of I don't know, Central authority is not the thing you want to say in the service, cushions in Crypto but you know what I mean? Rather than trying to set up a down the legal structures of the core with that, that will probably take us a long time. and the stuff happening, now that we could do with cash flow,

Tommy Butcher: Yeah, I mean I think we definitely need some sort of the multi-seg. To release any sort of funds. You know obviously more than one person would have to agree on it. But yeah,…

3 id: Yeah.

Tommy Butcher: the whole process of setting up an actual Dow.

00:15:00

Tommy Butcher: If we could avoid that. And all the legalities and stuff that goes along with it would be nice.

Larry Salibra: I mean, if you're good you're gonna have income. So you're gonna have incomes gonna have to go somewhere. Someone's going to report that someplace. Unless there's some place really you're not report. It someone's gonna responsible like it just it seems like I mean I this isn't like we've all realized that like compared to other name systems.

Tommy Butcher: Yep.

Larry Salibra: We don't have this pot of honey and I think I mean I can personally say why I've not pursued it either individually or on behalf of my company is because it seems like illegal minefield and it's not like I saw it's like regular story stuff is not. I want to get involved in like you know I've seen stacks go through it. um, and so it's really who's gonna who wants to go through and deal with that. And so that's one question. And the second question is like, Well, I mean, he stack it's to people if you look back in a forum, you know, originally burnt bitcoin to register name. Now, you've earned stacks. And so, like the value problems just like, what is, you know, What is the value stacks? Well, you know, it's gonna be burn to register names. Now, we're saying, Okay, well it's not gonna be burned, It's going to be centered people, you know, maybe we had to actually had that ability in the past back when it was bitcoin, but we remove that also for regulatory reasons.

Larry Salibra: Um so you headed back and the question is, you want to add it back to existing namespaces? Which sounds like from listening to what people are talking about they you'd like to add it back to like dot btc or Dot id. Oh or do you want to add it back on some new namespaces? Which I think are two different things because one is changing the rules Sort of in mid play. You know what just happened before, which happened with our, you know, we had more now we have one name, like somebody changed the rules and they play. So there's a whole bunch of There's a whole bunch of issues here. And and I guess it's like, who's willing to To deal with that. Like, is the question like wants to hire the lawyers. Who wants to IDs? Who wants to do to compliance? I don't raising my hand here.

3 id: I agree with all that Larry I'd be the same. I don't particularly want to do. I mean you mentioned that stacks have been through it you know is that was that Stacks Foundation? Is there an entity there? That's That's been through and has a stronger, legal construct, that could hold money on.

Larry Salibra: Oh it would be here on PVC was originally originality. It's currently called Hero and they went through all the filings. I mean, Gina's on the call, she knows about this like No I don't. I mean I don't know. I don't know who can help with a specific issue but it's um, it's complicated. I'm sure it's probably well for it's not something that particularly want to be spending my time.

3 id: Yeah.

3 id: Yeah.

Hank Stoever: First step would probably be talking to someone at the foundation. Number one, get perspective because you probably really do want a foundation model. You know, so you're not just like paying income tax on every single registration and then also to get perspective on, you know how realistic is, this would the foundation, you know, even be interested. Oh, that sort of thing.

3 id: Yeah.

Gina Abrams: I would say that, like, If people think that setting up a Dow is complicated, then trying to set up a non-doubt structure. That takes funds that Sort of gets through a lot of hurdles on this side is probably going to be harder, so that's just one thing to consider.

3 id: Okay.

Larry Salibra: I mean, I guess, I guess what, I hoped which I guess has not has not appeared to this moment is that people would build use cases on Bns like and then being incentivized like companies that build on, it would be incentivized to like contribute resources to help forward Bns as opposed to sort of like us a centralized Bns. Like if you look at how DNS was developed like on the Internet it wasn't like there wasn't like a DNS foundation. Like people started building stuff on DNS. And like then like those companies like Oh we like our business like depends on this. We should like send people that are we pay like beyond these like working groups and like It seems like that hasn't happened. That's sort of, I hope things would Would go forward and I don't know, I mean what other people expected? What your thoughts are on them?

Cordy Joseph: Oh yes. Hey Larry I have a question. Um so I was talking to snazzy about sister ID of hosting websites with Bns and that's what I could be a very good use case. It's not as realized yet around the technical system. I wonder because remember that would be a great empower other individuals who are building bitcoin websites with stacks Bns domains. What are the technical difficulties in doing so? And just using that BCC for storing Web for building websites because they'll be ever interested because support the next businesses because I have cash is that btc? And I'm like, that'll be interesting. In fact I use this as a Deputy website or something like that.

00:20:00

Larry Salibra: Um, if you want to message me, I'm happy to chat with you. I mean, we only have three minutes left so I don't want to take everybody's time. I'm happy to walk with you through the technical. Steps of doing that, it's not that hard.

Cordy Joseph: All right for sure. Definitely, I'm gonna send a message on discord. My name on I'm currently, I'm the Bns Council member so I'll send you, my discord name. It's, it's Cordy Joseph's, but I'm message you on there on discord as well.

Larry Salibra: Awesome. Great. I'm looking for now.

Cordy Joseph: Very good.

3 id: If you need to be part of that quite like to be part of that as well, if possible.

Larry Salibra: Um okay, so we have about we have about two minutes left of our actual schedule time. I'm happy to stick around until 30 minutes past the hourly when other people want to chat, but I but it would be nice to have like some action items. Um it sounds like We have a bunch of things going on. One is the financial part. Another is just sort of an information collection part. Like, that's taking, let's take the temperature of what people want. Um, that seems like, that's something that's pretty actionable. Um, Should be like, talk about like how we can do either survey or a poll or something like that. Similar, voting off chain, to get an idea of what What people feel about the more controversial issues would that be useful people?

3 id: Yeah, that would be good. Larry. I've got a jump in one minute and I think I'm down for an action to put something on the stacks forums around standardizing registration periods and stuff. I don't know if you want to record that. Anyway. The one thing I wanted to update people before I run is we have a meeting, I think Hank, myself and Snazzy. Have a meeting tomorrow with the team from Go D ID who are interested in Listing Bns on their marketplace. I first found them because the link directly out for me NS and I think the largely support EVM domains at the moment but they're quite keen to talk to us so I'll be update the next meeting how that goes.

3 id: But yeah, so if you're doing, I better run. Thanks sir.

Larry Salibra: Awesome.

Tommy Butcher: To.

Hank Stoever: I'm see, maybe the shortest action I could take or quickest is I'm happy to write up some technical details about how this can be done, you know, using like cryptographic signatures and stuff so we can so we can sort of verify, you know, these are our full community members What I would appreciate help with is. coming up with sort of like the the social consensus or like, you know, consensus determining options of, you know, a what to vote on and be, you know, how to, how do we know, you know, when when something is sort of like determined

Larry Salibra: That would be great. I think it's a promoting for like, so proposing a mechanism for determining social consensus or voting. Because I was just suggesting.

Hank Stoever: Yeah. And I'm saying. if, if someone else could contribute on the sort of like, What we're voting on slash, you know, what sort of the rules are of, you know, X number of votes, and X percentage and stuff like that. I would appreciate that help. And then and then I'm super happy to, you know, write up and then put development work into like the actual voting mechanism. Regardless of You know what the rules are.

Larry Salibra: Cool, I'm happy to contribute some ideas. I mean like I want to vote for to vote on

Hank Stoever: Mm-hmm, that'd be great.

Larry Salibra: Anybody else?

Larry Salibra: Silence. Okay. Well, Hank and I will work on that.

Hank Stoever: People. Hello.

Tommy Butcher: What kind of sorry, what kind of help would you need?

Hank Stoever: And you know one idea is that Special Bns Council folks. Could just really help getting the word out once. you know, once once that's actually ready and I think also just in you know, advocating for more feedback on the forum now is to kind of, you know, get as many Voices and activation as possible.

Cordy Joseph: Oh yes,…

Tommy Butcher: Oh yeah.

Cordy Joseph: I can definitely help with that. I've been newsletter with over about 3,000 subscribers. I created. I could create a article about that that helps

00:25:00

Tommy Butcher: Yeah, I'm happy to Promote or tell people, you know, hey. Go here and make your voice heard. I've tried to do that with the Forum a few times. I think maybe some of the blockers is, you know, you have to Register and all of that and I don't know, I thought we'd get a lot more. Feedback than we did. But yeah, I'm happy to continue to promote or point people. Wherever, you know, we need them to go to make their voice heard.

Larry Salibra: Um, awesome. That sounds great. So maybe we did a we could start a group in the, in one of the discord chats. I mean, it did Bns doubt.

Hank Stoever: Earth.

Larry Salibra: Good. Okay. Anything else we should talk about? Or do we want to call it A? Called a meeting or a morning.

Hank Stoever: I'm gonna pop off but creates that everybody thanks for everything, appreciate it.

Larry Salibra: Okay, awesome. Let's try that. We'll try to have something something regarding this by the next meeting.

Hank Stoever: Sounds good.

Tommy Butcher: Awesome. Thanks.

Larry Salibra: Okay. Thanks everyone. Have a good day.

Cordy Joseph: I guess.

Meeting ended after 00:27:00 👋
